






FAITH IN THE ANGELS

There are so many creatures of God. God with
no limits ‘of his knowledge and power, has bestowed
upon his every creature an independent and sepa-
rate shape and features such that in these guises
and appearances, we can see some of them whereas
we can not see the other ones.

Now, Angels are from that special existence
whom we are unable to see with our own eyes.

18

Their nature does not suit our nature. We can not
refuse their existence simply because we can not
see them. God almighty and His prophets have
informed us about their existence, whereas, we
can not see things like wisdom and soul but we
know that they are also existing.

The angles never disobey God, never turn down
his order and perform every kind of duty entrusted
to them. ;

They do not eat, do not drink, never get tired
and they do not know how to become weary or
bored.

The angels are blessed and spiritual existence.
There is no masculinity, and femininity in them.

Gabriel who is one of the archangels, acts as a
mediator by bringing logos to the prophets.

Some of the angels are responsible for carrying
away the souls of those whose predestinated mo-
ment of death comes. While others charged with
safeguarding the humenbeings, are always present
by their sides. Some others keep a record of bad
and good deeds of mankind. The angels provide
strength to the believers, intercede and invoke to
God for humanbeings. Another group of angels are
responsible for maintaining order and arrangement
of the universe.

19°

Page 12:
God Almighty has entailed the angels to _per-

‘form separate functions and has manifested His

power and omnipotence through them. Gabriel
Azrael, Michael and Seraph namely angels are arch-
angels who are nearest to God. Countless and innu-
merous angels carry out all the orders of God on
the earth, in heaven, and in between them. No body
knows the number of the angels save God.

FAITH IN HOLY BOOKS

We are under obligation to believe in all the
orders and prohibitions revealed by God to His
prophets. The orders received from God have been
conveyed by His prophets to humanbeings.

The Holy books teach humanbeings the way
necessary for attaining happiness both in this world
and in the next world. They explain the duties of
devotion and worship and bring good news of
happiness to those who follow these teachings. The
holy-books warn deviated and stray people, who do
not care for God’s orders, about calamities they
will suffer in the next world after their death. |

‘Our Holybook which has been sent to our pro-
phet is the Holy Koran (Koran-i Kerim). All the holy
books which have been sent to all the prophets co-
ming after Adam (peace be upon him) and before

our prophet Muhammed (peace be upon him) are
true. That is to say besides our Holy book we also
believe in all other books sent by God. Some of
these books-consist of pages. They are called pages
(suhuf). Some others are, quite big books.

The pages have been revealed to these pro-
phets : f

10 pages to Adam (peace be upon him).

50 pages to Shit (peace be upon him). _

10 pages to Idris (Enoch) (Peace be upon him).

10 pages to Abraham (peace be upon him).

The big books have been revealed to the follo-
wing prophets :

1 — Old testament to Moses (peace be upon
him).

2 — Psalms of David (peace be upon him).

3 — New testament to Jesus christ (peace be
upon him).

4 — Holy Koran to our beloved prophet, Mu-
hammed (peace be upon him).

+ Other books and pages except the Holy Ko-
ran, had been sent for certain people and nations

Page 13:
‘in certain periods, they became outdated and were

no morc in force and lost their validitiy.

The Holy Koran is the last book however, it is ©

not exclusively meant for one period, people and
nation. é

This Holy book belongs to every humanbeing. —
It will remain valid up to the day of judgement. The —

Holy Koran began to descend to our beloved pro-

phet at the age of 40. The revlation was complete in -

23 years starting from his prophecy up to his death.
In whatever form the Holy Koran descended to our
beloved prophet it came to us exactly as it is, wit-
hout any reduction or amendment.

The Holy Koran is in Arabic. It is recited as it
is, because it is both in word and in meanings, the
word of God. For ' understanding pourposes it has

to be translated from Arabic into other languages. |

The Holy Koran is the biggest miracle of our prop-
het. Let humanbeings progress as miuch as_ they
wish,, but even then the Koran suffices all their
spiritual and material need. The biggest revolution
brought about in this world is due to the teachings
of Holly Koran. The sole way of salvation for hu-
manbeings is to conform to the Holy Koran which
is the source of brightness, luminary, enlightenment
and guidance. ’

FAITH IN PROPHETS

God almighty has informed His Creatures about
His orders and prohibitions, necessary to show
them the right path; through His prophets. The
prophets are mediators and messengers between
God and His creations.

Prophecy is a gift of God. He bestows on whom
he wishes and it can not be achieved by striving and
struggling.

From Adam to our beloved prophet Muham-
med (Peace be upon him), God Almighty has sent
the prophets to all the old Naticns.

The prophets are the sole teachers of divine
knowledge and ethics for mankind.

Amongst human beings, the most beloved and
eminent creatures of God, are the prophets. They
never commit sins. They do not have bad temper
like envy and hypocrisy. They never told lies, what
they said that would happen has happened, and
what.they said would not happen has not happened.
They are the most reliable human beings and they
have never committed dishonesty.

The prophets are. wise and enlightened persons.
There has been no prophet among women.

we

Page 14:
All the prophets were wise and enligtened per-

sons, far from sins and near to. God before their
prophecy. From the, family and origin point of vi-
ew, they were also the most superior ones in the
societies they belonged to.

Being the prophet of all the world and being
the last prophet, our prophet Muhammed (peace be
upon him) is the greatest of prophets. ;

Just from the birth of humanbeings up to the —

time of our prophet Muhammed (peace be upon
him) so many prophets had been sent. God almighty
has informed us about some of them in the Holy
Koran. God knows only their exact number,

The first is Adam (peace be upon him) and the
last to come is Muhammed (peace be upon him).
Those prophets whose names are mentioned in the
Holy Koran are :

1 — Adam 8 — Ismael
2 Lars 9 — Isaac

3 — Noah 10 — Jacob
4 — Had 11 — Josef

5 — Salih 12 — Job

6 — Abraham 13 — Shu’eyb
7 — Lot 14 — Moses

74

15 — Aron 20 — Jonah

16 — David 21 — Dhal-Kifl

17 — Solomon 22 — Zachariah

18 — Elaah 23 — John the Baptist
19 — Elisha 24 — Jesus

25 — Muhammed (peace be upon him)

There is controversy about the prophecy of
these three pious persons whose names are Ezra,
Luqman and Dhi'l-Qarneyn.

We believe in all the prophets about whom we
have been informed or not informed, without any
discrimination. Therefore, Islamic religion has co-
vered all the humanity with an integrity which is
not easily achievable by any other religion.

OUR EMINENT PROPHET MUHAMMED
(PEACE BE UPON HiM)

Our prophet Muhammed (peace be upon him)
is the highest of all humanbeings who have lived,
are living and will live in this world. For every M.s-
lim who wants to turn to the path of God, the most
straight path he should follow, is the path followed
by our beloved Prophet. Therefore every Muslim
should know very well about the life and method of

Page 15:
living of our Prophet and it is very essential to follow
his footsteps.

With the birth of our beloved prophet in 571.
A.D. in Mecca, humanity entered into an era of great
revolution and salvation which was never seen before
-and will never be seen in future. Evils like cruelty,
immorality and ignorance which spoil and blacken
the souls of humanbeings, thus pull them to a stage
lower than animals, were done away with. From his
mother and father, the prophet comes from a very
highly distinguished family of the society he was
brought up in. His father is Abdullah and his mot-
her is Amina. He lost his father two months before
his birth and also his mother at the age of six. Up
to the age of eight, he remained with his grand-father

Abdul-Muttalib. At the death of-_his grand-father, hig

uncle Ebu-talib adopted him.

So the childhood of our prophet passed in an
immaculated orphanage. His youth, bachelorhood
and married-life passed in complete honesty and
goodness, seldom granted by God to any other per-
son.

He never told a single lie and had_ no recourse-
to fraud. Both his friends and his enemies all used
to call him Muhammed, the honest. When he was
twenty-five years old, he married a very pious and
rich woman named Hadija of Mecca who was then

ya

forty years old. Six children were born. All others
except Fatima died while our prophet was alive.

As soon as he was forty years old, prophecy
was bestowed upon him from God almighty. So he
taught humanbeings the real meaning of humanity
and its prestige. He enlightened all the world with
eternal rays of sun of divine knowledge, science,
culture and civilization which will never be extingu-
ished till the day of judgement.

Our prophet spread secretly the Islamic religion
for three years. Then with the order of God, he began
to call humandbeings openly to the straight path of
safety and security. :

But the religion enemies, whose souls were dark
with hostility and fury acted maliciously and tortu-
red badly our prophet and other Muslims in Mecca
for full thirteen years; they also tried to kill him
pitilessly. He struggled with them for complete thir-
teen years. He endured all the sufferings, starvations
and thirstiness which cannot be borne by any other
man.

With the order of God he migrated from Mecca
to Medina. Many people from Medina embraced the
Islamic religion. He strived in Medina also continu-
ously for ten years and tried to spread the order
and command of God.

an


Page 16:
He eliminated infidelity, cruclty, ignorance, in-
justice and corruption. He made the world enjoy
knowledge, justice, equity and happiness. At the age
of sixty three he left this world for the the eternal
rest. The Islamic religion, which brings humanbeings
in this world and in the next world closer to the
happiness and security, will continue to exist up to
the day of judgement.

Let God include us in the Muslim community
and not deprive us from his help and intercession
both in this world and in the next world.

FAITH IN THE DAY OF JUDGEMENT

Death : It is the end of this definite and deter-
mined world life and the beginning of another end-
less life. One’s life does not come to an end by death
but opens the door of another more eminent and

‘

eternal world.

The other world: This is an era which starts
with the annihilation of all the living and lifeless
existences and has no limits. It is the obligation of
every Muslim to believe in the existences of an eter-
nal life after death. As soon as man dies, he perceives
that he has entered another life. He will be interro-
gated about his God, his prophet and his religion.

28

The graves of those, who obeyed the Divine order
and followed the right path will be one of paradise’s
gardens and the graves of those who disobeyed, will
be one of hells’ pits. This is the grave life.

: When the signal of the day of judgement is
given, the order of the earths and heaven will be |
upset. Heavens will be split after being strongly ‘
shaken. The earth will stagger and then broken into
pieces. The earth will change into another earth and
also the heaven into another heaven.

-There will be a second signal of the doomsday -
and the resurrection of all the living beings will
take place; that time every body will be completely,
preoccupied with his own troubles. All the livings
will assemble at a certain place.

Every body will be terrified and panic-stricken
at this moment. Every one will see his worldy good-
ness and badness. And the judgement will begin.
God almighty will interrogate his creatures about
what they did in this world. The goodness and bad-
ness of every body will be evaluated. Good people
wil! be awarded paradise and the bad ones will suf-
fer hardships in hell, guilty believers (Mii’mins)
will bie to paradise after enduring their punish-
ment.

29

Page 17:
: THE EFFECTS OF BELIEVING IN NEXT WORLD
ON OUR WORDLY LIVES

The future life begins with this present life, the
conclusion of the life depends upon the worldly life.
Therefore the future life is a result of our present
life. If a man believes that there will be a reciprocal
of what he does (bad or good) in this world, he will
do his work with the utmost care and zeal and he
will refrain from evil deeds. The belief in the next
werld arises in man the conception of the existence
of a reciprocal of his every action how much secret-
ly it may be done. This sense gives rise to the thougt-
ful and. well-balanced behaviour of a man.

BELIEF IN FATE

The sixth principle of Islamic faith is to believe

in fate (qader) and that every thing good or bad

takes place with the consent of God. The fate (qad-
er) means that God has the eternal knowledge with
all minute details about all things happening before
they actually happen, where, when, and how they
will happen; also He fixes and assigns the mode of
their occurance. The taking place of all the things
at the predestinated time in the prefixed and predes-
tinated shape by God is called in Islamic terminology
as «qada». ;

30

God has given a man the right of selection. He
is free to do what he wishes. Therefore he is respon-
sible for every thing he does. If a humanbeing wants
to do good or bad things God creats this deed. This
is what we mean «good or evil takes place with the
consent of God.

Man strives and achieves and God creates. The
eternal knowledge of God of every thing is not an
obstacle to doing every thing freely by us. God
knows how we will behave with our will. He has
allowed us to do freely what we wish.

In every work man has to do all possible things ©
and not to leave any thing to be done in order to
have a result in every work; then he should leave
the rest to God, he must depend on God. This what :
we mean by the word resignation (Tawakkul).

‘There is no place in religion for those who beli-
eve that every thing will happen according to our
fate and who do not strive for the achievement of
their goals and leave and wait in laziness.

Our Religin is a religion of life and religion of
working faithfully honestly and continously.

31

Page 18:
SECOND CHAPTER
FIVE FUNDAMENTAL PRINCIPLES OF ISLAM

Our beloved Prophet has stated the following :
«Islam has been established on five fundamental
principles.» They are: (a) There is no deity save Al-
lah (God) and that Muhammed (peace be upon him)
1s His servant and His Apostle, (b) Prayers (Salai)
(c) Legal alms (Zakat) (d) Fasting and (e) Pilgri-
mage. ) :

According to the sacred sayings of our holy
Prophet, Islam has been established as said before
on five fundamental principles. For a believer to be
a perfect Muslim, he should fulfil all those five con-
‘ditions which are described and explained as fol-
lows :

(a) To believe voluntarily in the existence and
unity of God and that Muhammed (peace be upon
him) is His servant and His Apostle, confirming this
by a word of mouth:

. 32

LS 992 (18 Foe Gaene
‘Aes jlies Uy 2 all AID i)
«Ash- hadu an- 14 il4ha ill illallahu wa ash-hadu

anna Muhammaden Abduhu wa Rasidluh». (Trans: ,
literation) ~

«I bear witness that there is no deity save Allah
(God) and that Muhammed (peace be upon him) is
His servant and His Apostle». (Translation)

(b) To perform the five enjoined prayers every
day which are considered as the pillar of the Islamic
religion. :

(c) Those who are supposed to be rich are obli-.

ged to pay the legal alms (Zakat) of all their posses-
sions and properties once a year. :

(d) To fast in the lunar month of Ramadan.

(e) To perform the holy Pilgrimage once in his
life in case one is in good health and has enough
money.

LIABILITY AGE AND DIVINE RULES ;
CONCERNING THE AFFAIRS OF HUMANBEINGS:

In order to obey all Divine Orders and Prohibi-
tions and be responsible for all of them, a man sho- ©
uld possess the following qualities : ;

33

Page 19:
i — He should be wise.

2 — He should have acquired maturity and

adultness.
a a) Mad people and children are not obliged to
: follow these Divine Orders and Prohibitions. :
ing to Islam, the time of maturiy for
ae bg years and for boys betweer
12-15 years.

c) It is the obligation of the parents to teach
their children the teachings of Islam before they
attain this age. :

The affairs and mode of life of every wise and

_ matured Muslim from religion’s point of view can be
divided into three categories :

1. — Those affairs which our religion orders us 7

to do.

2 — Those which are not allowed in our reli —

gion.

3 — Those affairs whose performance or non- —
perfomance depends upon the will and choice of the —

. devotee.
Some of the ordered obligations :

; ne thi i done ~
1. — These are the things which are to be ne
positively by every believer, for example things like ©

34

performance of ablution, praying five times daily, ©
fasting in the lunar month of Ramadan and paying
the legal alms (Zakat) are called in Islamic termino-
logy Fards. This type of orders must be excuted
absolutely, Those who do not fulfill these obliga-
tions, will get their due punishment in the next
world and those who do not believe in these Divine
orders, go out of the Islamic religion. i

Devotions like having ablution, praying, fasting
in the lunar month of Ramadan, giving the legal
alms (Zakat) by rich people and praying at funerals
for the dead, are from these kinds of obligations.

(a) Every Muslim is personally responsible for
the performance of some of these obligations
(Fards). No body else can perform these Fards in
his place. This type of devotions are named.as Fard-
ul-Ayin (e.g. ablution, praying... etc.).

(b) Some other devotions are such that their
performance by some sections of Muslims will ab-
solve the rest. This kind of devotions are called
Fard-ul-kifaya (e.g. prayers at funerals for the dead).

2. Some other obligations which are not based
on decisive evidences like Fards, are also to be per-
formed and those people who de not follow them

35

Page 20:
1 — He should be wise.

2 — He should have acquired maturity and
adultness. q
a) Mad people and children are not obliged to
~ follow these Divine Orders and Prohibitions. : ;

b) According to Islam, the time of sai i
girls is between 9-15 years and for boys be 3 q
12-15 years. is

i bligation of the parents to 4
their ae de peer of Islam before they —
en aaeNe d mode of life ey wise and ]

i mode o :
i eatay ke religion’s point of view can be i
divided into three categories :

to do. 4
2 — Those which are not allowed in our reli:
ae rf non
3 — Those affairs whose performance or non: =
perfomance depends upon the will and choice of th 4
- devotee. ;

Some of the ordered obligations :

1 — These are the things which are to be done]
positively by every believer, for example things lis

34

performance of ablution, praying five times daily, —
fasting in the lunar month of Ramadan and paying
the legal alms (Zakat) are called in Islamic termino-
logy Fards. This type of orders must be excuted
absolutely, Those who do not fulfill these obliga-
tions, will get their due punishment in the next
world and those who do not believe in these Divine
orders, go out of the Islamic religion. :

Devotions like having ablution, praying, fasting
in the lunar month of Ramadan, giving the legal
alms (Zakat) by rich people and praying at funerals
for the dead, are from these kinds of obligations.

(a) Every Muslim is personally responsible for
the performance of some -of these obligations
(Fards). No body else can perform these Fards in
his place. This type of devotions are named.as Fard-
ul-Ayin (e.g. ablution, praying... etc.).

(b) Some other devotions are such that their
performance by some sections of Muslims will ab-
solve the rest. This kind of devotions are called
Fard-ul-kifaya (e.g. prayers at funerals for the dead).

2. Some other obligations which are not based
on decisive evidences like Fards, are also to be per-
formed and those people who de not follow them

35

Page 21:
will meet their due punishments. This type of orders 4

“are called Wadjibs (necessary) (e.g. to pray on the
morning of the first day of Eids (a) Eid-ul-Fitr (b)

Pid-ul-Adha, to sacrifice a victim (animal) on the —

Eid-ul-Adha according to one’s means.)

3. Those devotions which are neither Fard nor

Wadjib but practised frequently and left off and on 1

_ by our holy Prophet, are called Sunna.

a) Those who practise Sunna get God’s reward ~
and those who leave them without any spparent 4
excuse will be deprived of the intercession of the

holy Prophet.

b) All the things which our beloved Prophet —
has himself continuously done or has advised us to ~
do them, are named «Muekked Sunna» (confirmed —
Sunna) c.g. two raka’at before two Fards in the mor- ~
ning prayer, four raka’at before and two raka’at after ”
the four Fards in the noon prayer, two raka’at after —

four Fards in the night prayer.”

c) The Sunna which were sometimes prayed 1
and sometimes not prayed by our holy Prophet are _

* For details, please refer to the prayer’s scction.

36

termed as Ghayr-Muekked Sunna (unconfirmed ~
Sunna).

The performance of this type of Sunna brings
God’s reward and those who do ‘not perform them
are not supposed to commit any sin. Four raka’at
Sunna before four Fards both in the after-noon and
night prayers belong to this type. 2

Forbidden deeds :

These are the deeds decisively forbidden by the
Islamic religion like, murdering adultery, theft, lying ©
disobeying the parents and conspiring. It is absolute-
ly necessary not to commit these forbidden deeds.
Those who commit them will be punished in the
next world. The non-believers will go out of the Isla-
mic religion.

The prohibited deeds with undecisive arguments ~
and proofs are called Makruh (disagreeable acts).

The disagreeable deeds’ ( Makrnh) are of two
kinds : ; ;

(a) Inviolable (Tahrimen)

(b) Absolute (Tenzthen)

37

Page 22:
Those in the first category are near to the for-
bidden deeds. For example, like leaving the Wadjib
part of the devotion. One should abstain from them.
Those things which disturb the devotions, are termed
Disturbers (Mufsid) like speaking in prayers; eating
and drinking while fasting.

Those things which can be done or left freely”

are named permissible (Mubah) like eating, drink-
ing and walking... etc

38

DEVOTIONS

Our God, Creator of all the existences, has given
us innumerable blessings. It is our debt as creatures
of God to show indebtness and humbleness to Him
in reward of all these blessings, to obey all the Divine
Orders and to refrain from all the prohibitions. As
ordered by God, the payment of this debt is named
devotion. Devotion (ibadet) is only performed for
God according to His commandments. There is no

. deity worth-worshipping save Allah (God). Devotion

is performed exactly as ordered by God. It can not
be increased or decreased and never be changed at
any time or in any form. Devotion is the guard of
our Faith. It safeguards it and promotes the human
soul, Belief without devotion is dangerous. The de-
votions in Islam can be performed in three ways:

1 — Bodily, like praying and fasting. One per-
son cannot perform it on behalf of some body else.

2 — By wealth, like legal alms (Zakat).

39

Page 23:
*

3\— Both bodily and by wealth, like pilgrimage

‘ (Haj). Prayer is more exalted from these devotions
and is considered to be the pillar of our religion.
Prayer is said five times daily. The first cendition
of prayer is cleanliness.

There are two kinds of cleanliness in our reli-
gion.

1 — To clean our body, clothes, place of wor-
ship... etc., from things which are considered dirty
in our religion and which disturb our prayer. This
type of cleanliness is named cleanliness froin cano-
nical uncleanliness (Nedjaset).

2 — It is a type of cleanliness in which ritual

total ablution is performed in case of non-ablution
and the whole body is washed in order to get rid of

canonical impurities (junub); this is called the cle 4

anliness from Haddes.

Every two types of uncleanlinesses are removed
by using water. ‘

WATER USED FOR PURIFICATION

Waters which are allowed and lawful for purifi-
cation are of these main kinds : rain water, sea water
river water, fountain water, well water and snow
water, All these kinds of water are fit for purifica-
tion purposes, provided the normal colour, smell and

“

the taste are not changed. The water used for the
above purposes, should not have been used before.

SPECIAL CASES OF WOMANHOOD

There are three cases which prevent women
from performing their devotions. :

1. Menstruation: In these days the women
have been forbidden from performing their prayers,
fasting, reciting and touching the holy Koran, having
sexual inter-course and entering the mosques. There
is no harm in reciting learnt by heart verse; of the
holy Koran for the purpose of supplication. After
the menstruation period is over, they should have a
bath (total ritual ablution) and they are not obliged
to perform their prayers which they could not per-
for during the menstruation period, Only they have
to fast a like number of days for the lost fasts.

2. Puerperium: A maximum period of forty
days after child birth, is considered as puerperium.
During this period, the above mentiténed devotions
are prohibited for the concerned women.

3. If the blood continues less than three days
or more than ten days at the age of nine years in case
of girls and also during pregnancy, then women are
considered as excuscd and they can perform the
devotions, even if their condition of bleeding exists.

41

Page 24:
EXCUSED PERSONS

Those people whose noses bleed, whose urines

flow and whose troubled eyes and ears continuous-,

ly secrete, are considered also as excused ones. Peop-
le of this type perform their devotions even if these
excuses continue, provided that the excuse does not
expire during the period starting from the ablution
upto the performance of the prayer. They have to
perform ablution separately for every mentioned
prayer; they cannot perform the next prayer with
the ablution meant for the preceding one.

42

ABLUTION AND TOTAL RITUAL ABLUTION

It is necessary to perform total ritual ablution
in case of canonical impurities and simple ablution
in the state of rion-ablution in order to perform the
devotions on the same lines as ordered by cur holy
religion.

ABLUTION _
Ablution is performed as follows :

1. It begins with the niyya ie. the worshipper’s
intention and then with the recitation of the follow-
ing holy verses.

«I seek Allah’s, protection against the cursed
Satan. In the name of Allah, the beneficent, the mer-
ciful.» I intend to perform my Ablution. (Transla-
tion).

A’ozu billahi minash-shaytanir-rajim <

Bismillahir-rahmanir-rahim. (Transliteration)

2. The worshipper washes his hands three ti-
mes. :

43

Page 25:
3y Then he rinses his mouth, throwing water
into it with the right hand also three times. If it is
possible he can clean his teeth with a brush, if not
then he can clean them by rubbing with his fingers.

4. He then throws water upto his nostrils with
his right hand, snuffing it up at the same time and
then blowing it out by compressing his nostrils with
the thumb of his left hand three times.

5. He then washes every oe of his face with
both hands three times.

6. He next washes his right hand and arm with
the left hand as high as the elbow three times and in
the same manner, he washes his left hand and arm
with the right hand.

7. Afterwards he draws his wetted right hand
over the upper part of this head.

8. After that he puts the tips of his fingers
wetted with water into his ears and twists them
round pressing his thumb at the same time round the
back of the ears from the bottom upwards. Then
he wipes his neck with the fingers of his both hands
making the ends of his fingers meet behind his neck
and then drawing them forward.

9. Lastly he washes his right and then left feet
as high as the ankles.

44

From the above motions performed from the
beginning upto the end of the ablution, the following
are the Fards of Ablution :

_- 1 — Washing face by pouring water from the
forehead everytime.

2 — Washing hands upto the elbows.

3 — Drawing the wetted hand over the quar-
ter of the head.

4 — Washing the feet up to the ankles.

If any one of these acts is incomplete or if the
water used for ablution is not sufficient to trickle
down from the washed parts of the body, the ablu-

_ tion is considered to be imperfect in these.cases. ,

The remaining acts performed during ablution
are the Sunna. Sunna are founded on the practice
of the holy Prophet and they integrate the perfor-
mance of the ablution.

DISAGREEABLE (MAKRUH) ACTS. DURING
ABLUTION

1 — Non-performance of the Sunna of ablution.

2 — Use of water in such a way that it is strong-
ly beaten. against the parts worth-ablution.
‘

3 — Use of excessive or less water than com-
manded.

45

Page 26:
~ 4°— Performance of ablution in a dirty place.
These are the acts which decrease the merits of the
ablution.

The above mentioned states are disagreeable

(Makruh) in ablution.

Ablution is considered invalid if one of these
situations happens:

1 — Urination, defecation or breaking wind.

2 — Flow of blood, pus or yellow water from
the body. é

3 — Vomiting.

4 — Bleeding from mouth. If it is less than a
spittle, then it does not harm the ablution.

5 — Sleeping by recline on bed or leaning aga-
inst any place.

6 — Fainting.

7 —_Drunkenness.

Eye-tears, blood and pus which do not come out
and spread on the body, do not spoil ablution.

Sleeping during prayers while in Qiyam and
Jalsa positions without leaning against any thing,
also do not spoil the state of ablution.

Rubbing the Socks (Mes’h) and its Rules:

Any kind of boots or shoes which cover the feet

upto the ankles are called mest in Turkish language. ,

46

Mes’h (Rubbing) : If the worshipper puts on
after ablution any kind of boots, topboots, welling-
tons or socks with leather-soles which cover the feet
upto the ankles, he can during the next ablution
substitute the feet washing by wetting his hand with”
water and then putting his right joint fingers on the
top of his right foot and then the left foot in the
same manner and then rub the foot covers (mest)
with three fingers upto the ankles. The rubbing of
that part of mest which covers the foot with three
fingers is Fard i.e. enjoined by God, and pressing the
wetted fingers on the toes and then rubbing the mest
upto the shin is Sunna i.e. founded on the practice
of the holy Prophet.

Conditions of Mes’h (Rubbing)

In order to carry on rubbing perfectly on mest,
the following conditions should be fulfilled :

The mest be put on after performing the ablu-
tion.

The mest should cover the foot from every side
upto the ankles which are to be rubbed. and should
contain no water. The mest should not be wurn and
torn such that the three small toes appear out of it.
It should stand on the feet and be fit for walking
without being tied.

47

Page 27:
“If'the front portion of one of the feet is cut,
then rubbing is not allowed and so both the feet
should be washed properly. A one-legged man can
rub the mest of his only foot.

One can rub the boots worn on the mountains,
gardens and fields and perform his prayers with
them.

Duration of Mes’h (rubbing) for both travellers
and non-travellers

Travelers wearing their mests after taking ablu-

tion can rub their mests without taking them off for
complete three days and nights, ie. seventy-two

hours after the expiry of the said ablution. As for _

non-travellers they can rub their mests for one full
’ day and night i.c. twenty-four hours without taking
the mests off.

Things disturbing Mes’h (rubbing)

1 — Those things which violaté ablution will
also violate the Mes’h (rubbing). So while taking a
new ablution, it is necessary to rub them again.

2 — If one or both of mests come out or are
taken off.

3 — When the duration of Mes‘h (rubbing) is
over.

48

4 — If one of both the feet in mest gets wet
fully or partially.

If the above conditions take place before the
expiry of the second ablution, taken after the expiry
of the first ablution, then it is not mecessary to have
a new ablution and it is enough to wash the feet only. —

Rubbing (Mes’h) over the Bandage and Wounds:
If it is harmful to wash the wounds bruises or bro-
ken parts of the body with cold or hot water, it is
allowed to rub once the bandage instead of washing
them. There is no limit of time for rubbing the ban-
dage. It is allowed to continue rubbing upto the
recovery from it. It is not important to wrap the
bandage after taking ablution. The change of ban-
dage does not necessitate to rub the part again, If a
man has some excuse in half or more than half of
the organs which are worth-ablution, then he should
perform Tayamoum (It will be dealt in more details
later on). If the major portion of the worth-ablution
organs is healthy and sound and:a part of them is
excused, then it is allowed to wash the major por-
tion and to rub the excused portion; it is not allo-
wed to have Tayamoum in this case Because wash-
ing and Tayamoum cannot be brought together. That
means that it is not allowed to wash that part which
is not excused and to perform Tayamoum for a part
which is excused.

49

Page 28:
GHUSL (TOTAL RITUAL ABLUTION)

Ghusl is to be performed under these conditions:

1, After menstruation and puerperium

2. After sexual inter-course.

3. Nocturnal emission while asleep or awake
renders the body junub (impure). There is no way
out from this impurity except the performance of
total ritual ablution. This ablution is called Ghusl
and is a Fard. The total ritual ablution is performed
as follows :

1. The devotee first of all recites, «Bismillahir-
rahmanir-rahim. (Transliteration) .
«In the name of Allah, the beneficent, the merciful».

(Translation)

And then expresses his intention (Niyya) for
Ghusl.

2. After washing his hands, he should clean all
the impurities and semen which render his body
dirty.

3. Then he should perform his regular ablution.

4. At the end of ablution, he should throw
water over his head and his right and left shoulders
three times. At every act of throwing water, he rubs
his body thoroughly. He does not leave any part of

50

his body dry how small it may be even of the size
of a pin-point. In this way Ghusl is considered to be
complete.

Following actions of the total ritual ablution are
Fards :

i Rinsing the mouth and throat with water.

2. Throwing water upto his nostrils snuffing
it up and then blowing it out.

"| 3. Washing the whole body from head to foot.

The total ritual ablution is incomplete if any
one of the above actions lacks or the body is not free
from junub (impurily and dirtiness).

It is Fard for men to wash their hair thoroughly.
As for women, they are not obliged to untie their
tress of hair, but they should wet the roots of their
hair thoroughly.

TAYAMOUM (Sand washing)

When water is not available in sufficient quan-
tity for ablution and total ritual ablution, or the
available water is found at a place which is full of
danger, or the water is found at a distance of four
kilometres, or there exists a possibilily of getting
some disease from the water to be used or there is
a danger of suffering thirstiness both for him and
his animals in case of the use of the available water

51

Page 29:
for ablution and total ritual ablution or if he thinks
that he will be late for the funeral or Eid prayers,
then the ablution may be performed with pure dust
or sand. This part of devotion is called Tayamoum
(sand or dust washing). When the above conditions
prevail, getting ablution or total ritual ablution by
pure dust or sand (tayamoum) is Fard for all Mus-
lims.
THE PERFOMANCE OF TAYAMOUM

Tayamoum begins with the expression of the
intention (Niyya) by the worshipper and then utte-
rance of «Bismillahir-rahmanir-rahim»

(Transliteration)

«In the name of Allah, the beneficent, the mer-
ciful». (Translation)

Tayamoum is done by rubbing the inner side of
the hand with open fingers on the pure dust or sand,

or anything like dust, (while rubbing, the hand is
brought forward and backward and then strongly

shaken off) and then every part of the face is wiped q

with the innerpart of the hand.

Afterwards, the inner parts of the hand are
rubbed on dust, the above actions are completed
again and the arms are wiped just like in the nor-
mal ablution by the inner part of the hand. (First

52

of all by separating thumb. and the index mnger,

rubbing is begun by the inner parts of the other three

fingers of the left hand, starting from the end of

the fingers of the outer side of the right hand upto

the elbow. The rubbing of the inner parts of the

arms, is completed by the hollow of the same hand. -
No place in the hand and the arm should be left

unwiped. Same procedure is repeated for the

left hand and left arm). In this way Tayamoum gets

completed. :

THE FARDS OF TAYAMOUM
The Fards of Tayamoum are :
1 — Intention.

2 — The rubbing of the face after the first
touch of the inner part of the hand to the dust.

3 — The rubbing of arms after the second to-
uch of the inner part of the hand to the dust. The
motions beyond these three Fards performed by
keeping this order, are named the Sunna of Taya
moum.

EXPIRY OF TAYAMOUM

Those things which spoil ablution also spoil
Tayamoum. Tayamoum also expires when the water
is available or when the obstacles about the use of
water are over. .

53

Page 30:
AZAN (CALL TO PRAYER) AND IQAMA

Azan informs the Muslims about the timings of
prayer, and is recited at the beginning of the prayer
timings. It is a comfirmed Sunna ordered by the

holy Prophet (peace be upon him).

Azan is recited loudly and the caller is named
«Muezzin» The following is translation of Azan:

God is the Great. God is the Great.

God is the Great. God is the Great.

I do testify that there is no deity save God.

I do testify that there is no deity save God.

I do testify that Muhammed is Allah’s messen-

ger.
I do testify that Muhammed is Allah’s messen-

ger.
Come to pray. Come to pray.

Come to salvation and prosperity. Come to sal- |

vation and. prosperity.
God is the Great. God is the Great.
There is no deity save God.

Arabic Text of Azan

ee V9 75 en rN 4 —3\ 7
SSS pecan nee

Bay Pe Nee, nie e
AMAISET Sasol

I= (21TH (BL 1/
a LAAN aay aes eel

° a Sl dined
a en al ens 7,
on \ > Gal ithe
oot” ee ee
< . \ wo 7 Ei om
CES (SRE
\Na4 iv 4 ° i) )
7 ene Fo Pee tee oy) wi)
aya peels el al
Transliteration of AZAN : :
Allahu Akbar.
Allahu Akbar.
Ash-hadu an-l4 Haha-illallah.
rere an-l4-[laha-illallah.
Ash-hadu anna Muhammaden Rasulullah
Asl-hadu anna Muammaden Rasulullah.
yya alas-Salah. Ha alzs-Salah.
Hayya alal Falah. Hayya alal Falah.

Allahu Akbar.
La ilaha illallah. a ee

Allahu Akbar.
Allahu Akbar.

55

Page 31:
In the morning Az4n «Es-Salatu Khayrun mincn-
naum» (prayer is better than sleep) is added twice
after reciting «Hayya-alal Falah» (come to prospe-
rity and salvation)

GIGS as a1 enareeet

ADMY e eigllge eI
Azan is recited for the Friday as prayer

along with the five stated prayers.

The reciting of Azan or Iqama* once in a cer-
tain mosque suffices for the private and congrega-
tional prayers.

An Azan recited in a certain locality is prevalent
for all that locality.

The words of Iqama are siinile? as those of

Azan. The only difference being of the addition of a
«Qad Qametis-salah» (prayers are now ready) twice:

after reciting «Hayya alal-Falah. (Come to salva-
tion and prosperity). f

WBOLaks 3AD-

Iqama is not to be recited in case of Eid and

Funeral prayers.

* When the prayers are said privately, in a congregation
or in the mosque they begin with the iqama which is
the second call to prayer.

56

i PRAYER

Prayer is the pillar of religion and the most
superior to all the devotions. After testifying God's
existance and unity the performing of the five times
stated prayers is our debt as servants of God. The
five stated prayers have been enjoined in Mecca one
and half year before Hijret (The migration of our
holy Prophet from Mccca to Medina). It is Fard to
perform prayer five times a day for every adult and
wise Muslim.

One who does not pray is considered as viola-_
ting God’s commandments and will be punished in
the next world.

Prayer is our creation and thankfulness debt to
our Creator for all the innumerable blessings besto-
wed-upon us by God.

Worshippers fulfill God’s orders, pay their crea-
tion debt, therefore they win God’s contentment and
pleasure and reach happiness and prosperity in the
next world.

57

Page 32:
Different Kinds Of Prayer

Prayers which are Fards :

1 — These are the prayers decisively ordered

by God and to be performed by every Muslim (like - ‘

five stated prayers and Friday prayer).

2 — The prayers to be performed by some of
the Muslims whereas others are exempted (like
Funeral prayers).

Prayers which are Wadjibs :

Witr, Eid, vow, going around Ka'ba (Tawaf Pra-
yer) and the performance of the omitted Nafl pra-
yers, etc.

Nafl Prayers :

These are extra prayers beyond the Fard and
Wadjib prayers.

Times of the Five stated Prayers

Every work has a definite and proper time, si-

milarly the Fard prayers have been divided into five
stated prayers in the said period of time.

Times of the prayer :

Morning (Fajr), Noon (Zuhr), Afternoon (Asr),
Sunset (Maghrib), and Night (Isha).

58

Time of morning prayer (Fajr) :
From the break of day till the sun rises.
Time of noon prayer (Zuhr) :

It begins from the inclination of the sun to the
west and closes at the time when the shadow of a
person shall be equal to the length of his stature or
twice the length of his stature as given by some
other scholars.

Time of the afternoon prayer (Asr) :

It begins with the ending of the noon prayer
timings up to sunset.

Time of the sunset prayer (Maghrib) :

It begins after the sun has set, and lasts up to
the disappearance of the redness and brightness at
the horizon.

Time of the night prayer (Isha) :

It begins after the sunset prayer and continues

up to day-break (dawn).

Every prayer is performed in time. Prayers per-
formed before their actual and proper time are not
acceptable.

The prayers not performed in proper time due
to a certain excuse must he performed at some ot-

oF

Page 33:
her time (it is called Qadha). Delay of prayer wit-
hout any apparent reason, is sin.

It is not correct to perform the due Fard or
Wadjib prayers at the following three times :

1 — When the sun is rising.
2 — When the sun is at the Zenith
3 — When the sun is setting.*

The performance of the Nafl prayers in the fol-
lowing times is Tahrimen Makruh (Inviolablly di-
sagreeable) :

1 — After the morning prayer.

2 — After the afternoon prayer.

3 — Before the Fard of the sunset prayer.

4°— Before and after the Ejd prayers.

5 — Between the two accompanied prayers dur-
ing the pilgrimage. ;

6 — When the time is short and is sufficient
only for ard prayers.

7 — During the Iqama call for the Fard pra-
ver (except if the worshipper intends to perform
two Rak’at Sunna in the morning prayers).

8 — When man is forced to relieve nature.

9 — When the table is set with the favourite
dish of the worshipper.

* But the Fard of the afternoon prayer can be prayed as
Makruh.

60

‘Rak’at of Five Stated Prayers.

Rak’ai : In prayer, the movements consisting of
standing, reciting verses from holy Kuran, bending
and prostrating twice are called Rak’at. Prayer is
composed of Rak’at.

Table showing number of rak’at of five stated prayers

Sunna Sunna
Name of prayers before Fard after Witr Total
Fard Fard

Morning (Fajr) Z
Noon (Zuhr)

Sunset (Maghrib)

4
After noon (Asr) 4
Night. (Isha) 4

Twelve Fards of Prayer

If there is a lack of one Fard from twelve Fards,
the prayer is considered incomplete. So it is neces-
sary to repeat the prayer in this connection. Six out
of these Fards should be performed before the ac-
tual prayer. They are called the conditions of prayer.
Other six Fards are performed during the prayer.
They are called the fundamental principles of prayer
(RUKN).

61

Page 34:
TE as

To learn how to perform the prayer perfectly
it is necessary to conduct the following acts conse-

External Conditions Of Prayer

1 — To perform ablution and tetal ritual ablu-
tion in case of necessity. (One who has not perfor-
med ablution and is canonically impure or a woman
who has menstruation and puerperium, in these
cases they cannot pray).

2 — To clean the body, the clothes, the place
where the devotee wants to pray and get rid of the
impurity, if any, which may prove obstacles in the
performance of prayer.

3 — To cover the parts of the body whose ex-
posure is forbidden,

a) For men: the parts between navel and knie-
pan.

b) For women: Every part except their face,
hand and feet.

4 — To perform the prayer in the direction of
Ka’ba. If the devotee changes his orientation from
Ka’ba, his prayer is spoilt.

5 — To perform the prayers in time.

6 — To express that he proposes to offer up
to God such prayer as the case may be. This is named
as «Niyya» (Intention). To pronounce it verbally is
Sunna.

62

INTERNAL FARDS OF PRAYER

(six Fundamental principle of prayer «Rukn»)

1 — To begin the prayer with Takbir (Allahu
Akbar-God is the Great)

2 — Qiyam: To stand on feet. Those having no
excuse should perform the Fard and Wadjib prayers
while the standing position is maintained.

3 — Qira’a: Recitation. To recite som? verses
out of the holy Kuran while standing. :

4 — Ruka: Bending. Bending in such a way
that the palms of the hands reach the knies.

5 — Sajda posture: Prostration. In this position
the devotee prostrates himself, the fingers of both
feet, hands, both knies, the nose and the forehead
should be touching and resting.on the ground.

6 — To sit (Jalsa position) at the end of the
prayer for a time sufficient for reciting Tashah-hud
sentences.

If any one of these twelve Fards lacks the pra-
yer is not complete.

HOW THE PRAYER SERVICE IS PERFORMED

To learn how to perform the prayer perfectly it is
necessary to conduct the following acts conse-
quently and to make it clear we will give an examp-

63

Page 35:
le: the two Fard Rak’at of the morning prayer
(Fajr) :

1 — After performing the ablution, the devotce
‘stands up with his face Qibla-wards i.e. towards
Mecca. The regular form of prayer then bergins with
the Niyya i.e. the worshipper’s intention, expressed
that he purposes to pray to God such Rak’at as the
case may be, (here 2 rak’at in the case of morning
prayer).

Then follows the words: Allahu Akbar «God is ~

the Great» uttered with the thumbs touching the
lobules of the ears and the open hands on cach side
of the face. Then he places the right hand upon the
left over the breast while the eyes looking to the
grcund.

During this posture (qiyam position) the wors-

hipper recites the following Tasbih or supplication

oe Nis ee ea hSeG ae “--,
‘ oo

ies Bays a acs EeSiey:

«subhanaka Allahumma wa a git wa ta-
baraka ismuka wa ta’éla jadduka wa 1a ilaha ghay-
ruk» (Transliteration)

64

«Glory to Thee o Allah (God) and Tnine is the
praise, and blessed is Thy name and exalted is Thy
majesty, there is no deity to be worshipped but
Thee.» (Translation)

Then he recites :

atin CGE og!
SEEN YA

EM ZENE oh) A ca

«A’ozu billahi minash-shaytanir-rajim. Bismilla:
hir-rahmanir-rahim.» (Transliteration)

Orr

«I seek Allah’s protection against the cursed
Satan. In the name of Allah the Beneficent, the Mer-
ciful.» (Translation)

_ 2 — After this the Fatiha (the Opening chapter
of the Kuran) is recited in the same position. It
runs as follows :

«Al hamdu lillahi-rabbil-dlamin, ar-rahmanir-ra-
him, maliki yawmid-din iyyaka na’bodu wa iyyaka
nasta’in, ihdinas-siratal-mustaqim siratal-lavina an’-
amta alayhim ghayril maghdabi alayhim walad-Dal-
lin, Amen» (Traslitariton)

65

Page 36:
“<All praise is due to Allah (God) the Lord of

all worlds, the Beneficent the Merciful, King of the -

day of reckoning. Thee only do we worship and from
Thee only we seek for help. Guide us to the right
path, the path of those to whom Thou hast been
gracious, not of those who are condemned nor
those who are misguided» Amen, i.e. be it so!
(Translation)

ee Nevo)

ee eh
© LS Fle Welln se
» »

{SSIS Me ssl
opera Dio AA

\

Bie ox BAD Ga ua

2

1 We
oN CNYs

Then any portion of the Kuran which the devo-
tee may have learnt by heart is recited. Generally
one of the shorter chapters of the Kuran is repeated.
For example :

I — Alikhlas (Sincerity)

in the name of Allah the Beneficent the Merciful
Say: He is Allah, the one.

Allah the eternally Besought of all.

He begotteth not nor was begotten.

And there is none comparable unto Him.

(Translation)
ta
Ea) ee
EAS oe eee Ph Ee as
Nolo Aca able Jel 8
te

2 ifs Bae ° Ke
a Gan NETS 9505

«Qul huwallahu ahad Alléhus-samad lam yalid
wa lam ydlad wa lam yakun lahu kufwan ahad»
(Transliteration)

67

Page 37:
ie

tt — aAl-Kauthar (Abundance)

In the name of Allah the Beneficent, the Merciful

Lo! we have given thee Abundance,

So pray unto thy Lord, and sacrifice.

Lo! It is thy insulter (and not thou) who is
without posterity.

Bas =

a 7 vee 8 oe enn
ol ‘ 3 OY VG vies \

a7

27° w Z et a aad
@ PVADE G0 S's

Ill — Al-Falaq (The Day-break)

In the name of Allah the Beneficent the Merciful
Say : I seek refuge in the Lord of daybreak =~
From the evil of the darkness when it is intense q
And from the evil of malignant witchcraft:*
‘And from the evil of the envier when he envieth. |

* Lit. «from the evil of blowers (Feminine) upor knots» —
it having been a common form of witchraft in Arabia ~
_for women to tie knots in a cord and blow upon them!
with an imprecation. ¥

68

— Noe \
po>)\\e}\ \ @
= >} FP \ abe os

IV — An-Nas (Mankind)

In the name of Allah, the Beneficent, the Mer-

ciful.

Say : I seek refuge in the Lord of mankind,
The king of mankind,

From the evil of the sneaking whisperer,
Who whispereth in the hearts of mankind,
Of the jinn and of mankind.

69

Page 38:
70

ye

aay | Oe ‘ )
Fa SI . ee ey
Z, oS
: an ae Wee ai
sohubo Page
“ac “ae = Ear
i ’. o—\\oa. -
silo -EL ity © - Bl

3 — Then saying «Allahu akbar» (Allah is the —

Great) the devotee lowers his head down so that the
palms of the hands reach the knees in this position,
which is called Ruki that is bending, words express-

ing the Divine glory and majesty which are repeated —

three times.
They are the following :
«Subhana Rabblyal-azim»

«Glory to my Lord the Great»
(Translation)

After this posture the standing position is re —
sumed but unlike the qiyam position, the hands —

being placed on either side, with the following words

_ (Transliteration) —

«Sami’a Allahu-liman hamida».(Transliteration)

«Allah accepts him who praises Him»
(Translation)

4 — Then the devotee prostrates himself, the —
fingers of both feet, both knees, the nose and the
forehead should be touching and resting on the
ground, while the following words expressing Divine -
greatness are uttered three times.

«Subbana Rabiyal a’la»
(Transliteration)

«Glory and praise be to my Lord, the Highest»
(Translation)

One raka prayer ends here.

5 — The devotee then rises and assumes a
standing position for the second raka which 1s com-
pleted in the same manner as the first raka, but
instead of assuming a standing position after the
second raka, he sits down in a reverential position.
At the close of the second raka, the worshipper sits
down to recite At-Tahiyat as the glorification of the
Divine Being, which runs as follows.

ie

Page 39:
vail y he * :
IBC a Gao!
=

Gs

«At- tahiyatu lillahi, wassala-watu wattayibatu. Assa-
Jamu ‘alayka ayyahan-nabiyu wa rahmatullahi wa
barakatuh. Assalamu, ‘alayna’ wa ’ala’ ibadillahis-
salihin. Ash-hadu an-La ilaha illallahu wa ash-hadu
anna Muhammadan ‘abduhu wa raséluh.»

(Transliteration)

«All prayers and worship, rendered through words,

actions, and good deeds are due to Allah. Peace be
to you, O my Prophet, and the mercy of Aliah and
His blessings may be showered upon you. Peace be
to us and to the righteous servants of Allah. 1 bear
witness that there is no deity but Allah (God) and
that Muhammad is His servant and His Apostle».
(Translation)

Then after reciting these, the devotee repeats also

72

the following prayer of blessings (Salawat) for the
holy Prophet.

NA SNR CASO
i aa AU aes hate
SBD RNa

wy

CARL NON DRESS

aS ie s A, a ~~
SARE ale

«Allahumma salli ‘ala Muhammad wa 4la ali Mu-
hammad kam sallayta 4la Ibrahim, wa ala 4li_ Ibra-
him innaka hamidon majid. Allahumma brik 4l4
Muhammad wa 4la ali Muhammad kama barakta
ala Ibrahim. wa 4la ali ibrahim innaka hamidon
majid.» (Transliteration)

«O my Lord! Kindly magnify your favour upon Mu-
hammed and the family of Muhammed as Thou didst
magnify Thine blessings upon Abraham and the fami-
ly of Abraham, for surely Thou art the most Laud-
able and Glorious.»

«O my Lord! Kindly bless Muhammed and the family
of Muhammad as Thou didst bless Abraham and the

73

Page 40:
famify of Abraham, for. surely Thou art the most
Laudable and Glorious.» (Translation)

The following supplication is recommended to be
also added to the above:

| See NSS
pony

«Rabbanagh-firli wa li wa-lidayya wa lil mu’minina
yawma yaqumul-hisab.» (Transliteration)

«O my God. Forgive my sins and those of my parent 4
and those of the faithful when the day of reckoning —

shall come» (Translation). ‘

This closés the two rakaat service which ends by ~
the Salam or the greeting. Thus, turning the head —

round to the right, the worshipper says,

«Assalamu alayqam wa rahmatul-lah» (Transli-

teration).

lation).

Then, turning the head round to the left, the devotee —
repeats the Salam with the same intention as above. —

74

«Peace and mercy of God be upon you.» (Trans- —

j

In every prayer, performed in private or in congrega-
tion, the devotees have to recite the following holy
verses.

«All4humma antassalamii wa minkassalamu taba-
rakta yazil-jaleali wal ikram». (Transliteration)

«O my God. Thou art the peace, the source of peace,
and the blessed owner of glory and _ generosity.»
(Translation)

In this way, the two Fard rakaat of the morning
prayer come to an end. The two Sunna rakaat of the
morning prayer, are also prayed in the same manner.
In case of the performance of the four Fard rakaat,
the devotee stands up after reciting At-Tahiyat. In
the last two rakaat of prayer, the devotee does not
recite any chapter of the holy Kuran. In case of four
rakaat of the confirmed Sunna, the only difference
from the four Fard rakaat is to recite some verses
from the holy Kuran in the third and fourth raka
after the Fatiha. Taking the case of four rakaat of
the unconfirmed Sunna the only difference from
the four rakaat of confirmed Sunna is to recite Sa- .
lawat after the Tahiyat at the end of the second
raka; and to recite Subhanaka and Aéazu billahi...
at the beginning of the third raka. In the three Fard
rakat of the sunset prayer, the devotee recites Fa-
tiha only in the third raka of the Fard prayer.

15

Page 41:
\ The Witr Prayer

The Witr prayer is Wadjib (necessary). It con-
sists of three rakat and is to be performed after the
night prayer. Witr is performed just like the three
Fard rakat of the sunset prayer, with the difference
‘that in the third raka, the devotee recites some ver-
* ses from the holy Kuran after the Fatiha, then he
says «Allahu akbar» while raising his hands such
that the thumbs touch the lobules of the ears as
in the start of every prayer, then he places his right
hand over his left hand on his breast and recites

the Qunit supplication

iad eee ae
a2) a5
y Ks s Ayame 9

og

\
ake aie
“s ©
Seer in et tg ae Goh
Sse SFIII SSA;
AR GS gates as Sere Yt i
GP SEVIS I
24 Bes

76

iistSgich aes SGZA
ie ESET 5
a Neen ett Sila

«Allahumma inna nasta inuka wa nastagh-firuka
wa nastahdika wa nu’minu bika wa natubu ilayka
wa natavakkalu alayka wa nusni alaykal-khayra kul-
lahu, nashkuruka wala nakfuruka wa nakla’u wa
natruku man yafjuruka. Allhumma iyyaka na’budu
wa laka_nusalli wa nasjudu wa ilayka nas’aa wa
nahfidu narju rahmataka wa nakhsha azabaka inna
azabaka bil kuffari mulhik.» (Transliteration)

«O Allah! We beseech Thy help and Thy forgive-
ness as weare faithful to Thee and depend wholly
upon Thy Divinity. We laud Thee in the best; we
thank Thee and shall never forget Thy favours. We
cast off and forsake him who is unmindful to Thee. O
Allah! We worship none but Thee.. To Thee we pray
and make obeisance and to Thee do we fl72 prom-
ptly. We hope for Thy mercey and we fear Thy pun-
ishment, for surely Thy punishment overtakes the
infidel. (Translation)

77

Page 42:
THE WADJIBS OF PRAYER

If the devotee does not perform a certain part
of the wadjibs of the prayer knowingly, then it is
wadjib to repeat the whole prayer, but if he forgets
to pray a cretain part of the Wadjibs of the prayer,
then he may complete his prayer by simply doing
the Sehiv Sajda (forgetfulness Sajda).

The Wadjibs are:

1 — To start the prayer by saying Allahu Akbar
(God is the Great).

2 — To recite Fatiha (opening chapter) in the
first two rakat of the four Fard :akat and in every
raka of the Nafl prayers.

3 — To recite some chapters of the holy Kuran
after Fatiha in case of first two rakat of the four
Fard rakat and in every raka of the Nafl prayers.

4 — To perform two Sajdas one after the oth-
er and to make the nose touch the ground.

5 — To perform every Fard as described and
while passing from one Fard to the other Fard there
should be a sufficient time so that one can say the
werd «Subhanallah».

6 — To sit after the second raka in case of two
or four rakat of prayer. It is named as first sitting.

78

7 — In every raka of the prayers like morning,
Friday, Bairam, Tarawih and Witr, and in the first
two rakaat of the sunset and night praye.s which
are performed in congregation, the Iman should
recite Fatiha and the Kuranic verses loudly whereas
foc the other rakaat he should recite them silently.

8 — The followers praying in congregation
must have to keep silent.

~ 9 — To recite Qunut in the Witr prayer. Both
the Iman and his followers should pray silently.

10 — Bairam Takbirs (pronouncing Allahu Ak-
bar); ruku Takbir (Bending Takbir which follows
after the Takbirs of the last raka along with the six
Takbirs which belong to the Bairam Prayer).

\

11 — To end the prayer by Salam.
12 — To perform the Sehiv Sajda (forgetful-
ness Sajda) in case the devotee did some mistake
during his prayer.
SEHIV Sajda (Forgetfulness Sajda)

THe devotee must perform a forgetfulness Sajda
(Sehiv Sajda) in the two following cases :

1 — When he forgets to pray one of the Fards
of the prayer in the prescribed time.

79

Page 43:
a

4 — When he forgets to perform one of the
Wadjibs of the prayer in time or when he totally
ignores it.

How to perform the forgetfulness Sajda (Sehiv
Sadja) :

As soon as the devotee offers Salam, he per- —
forms two Sajda as in the usual prayer and then —
sits down to recite "Tahiyat’, Salawat and supplicati- —
on as usual. Salam closes the forgetfulness Sajda of —
the prayer. In this way devotee completes the mis- ~
sing part of his prayer by the performance vf Sehiv —
Sajda. i

THE SUNNA OF THE PRAYER

1 — To raise the hands to the level of the ears 4
at the beginning of every prayer, at the beginning ~
of Ounut in the Witr prayer and while uttering the ©
Takbirs of the Bairam prayer and then to place the
right hand over the left hand on the chest. 4

2 — To recite Subhanaka, A’éuzu and Bismillah
at the beginning of the first raka of every prayer.

3 — To say Amin silently after the recitation 4
of the opening chapter i.e. Fatiha in both individual ©
and congregational prayers. a

4 — To utter all other Takbirs alongwith t
opening Takbir of the prayer.

80

. 5 — To say «Sami’ allahu liman hamida, Rab-
banakal-hamd> after the devotee stands up from the
ruku position (Bending)

6 — To. repeat «Subhana Rabbiyal-azim» three
times while in ruku position and to repeat «Subhana
Rabbiyal-alé» three times in every Sajda position.

7 — Holding the knees with the fingers of the
hands apart from each other while in the ruku posi-
tion (bending) and holding the knees and elbows
straight while back and head are in the horizontal
position.

8 — While prostrating (in Sajda position) first
of all knees then hands and then forehead should be
raised from the ground. Those who have no excuse,
should place their forehead between their hands in
the Sajda position.

9 — Recitation of Tahiyat silently by placing
hands on the knees in the sitting position and reci-
tation of Salawat and supplication after reciting Ta-
hiyat in the last sitting.

10 — At the end of the prayer, turning the head
to the right, the devotee says «<Assalamu Alaygom
wa rahmatullah» and then turning the head to the
left, he repeats the above verses of Salam.

: While in prayer, to look at the Sajda place
while standing, to look at the feet while in ruku

81

Page 44:
position, to look at the lap while sitting and to a
over the shoulders while uttering Salam, are al.
meritorious acts.

THINGS WHICH RENDER THE PRAYER

MAKRUH (DISAGREEABLE)
i ll the following

In prayer, the commitance of al
and other disrespectful acts is Makruh (disag-
reeable).

1 — To play with any part of the body, to
yawn and stretch.

2—To stand in prayer with objectionable
clothes and sleeves rolled up and not to sit in the
proper way.

3 — In prayer, to close or to raise the eyes; to
divert the head from the Qibla direction.

4 — While praying in congregation, to stand
separately when there exists a vacant place in the
front row; to stand for prayer in fcont of burning
fire, picture, grave and the humanbeing.

5 — Non-performance of all the above men-
tioned Sunna.

THINGS VIOLATING THE PRAYER

1 — To speak, to eat and to drink something, a
to laugh, to greet somebody, to cough willingly, to

82

blow, to sleep, to lean against something and to say
«ugh and ah»... etc.

2 — The appearance of water in case when one
has performed his ablution by Tayamoum. The
expiry of the rubbing (mes’h) and wrong recitation
of the holy Kuran which alters the meaning of the
holy verses. ’ :

3 — Non- performance of one of the Fards.

4 — To divert the body from the Qibla direc-
tion.

5 — Rising of the sun while the devotee is
praying the morning prayer.

6 — To perform the prayer both by men and
women in the same row, while praying in congrega-
tion without any partition between them.

7 — While praying, the exposure of the privy
parts which lasts for a time equal to the performance ~
of one fundamental principle of prayer.

8 — To perform Salam knowingly in the second

raka when the number of Fard rakaat is greater
than two.

PRAYING IN CONGREGATION

Praying in congregation is one of the characte-
ristic ceremonies of the Religion of Islam. Prayer
prayed in congregation is 25-27 times more meritori-
ous than the prayer performed individually. It is

83

Page 45:
ao
wf

the following cases :

Heavy rain, snow, coldness, hotness, darkness, :
- infarmness, paralaysis, old age, the danger of life and
property and in ease of journey... etc; because one ’
does not attend in these cases, one of the most im- |
portant ceremonies of Islam. One who leads prayer —
is called Imam (chaplain of the mosque) and the |
devotees who follow him, are called Djamaat (cong:
regation). The Imam must be the most distinguis- ©
hed person in every respect from amongst the |

people present in the congregation.

The following conditions must be fulfilled by 7
the congregation in order to follow the Imam in a

right way :

The devotee must express his intention that he :
follows the Imam before the actual prayer begins. {
The prayer performed both by the Imam and his

followers must be the same. For iistance, if the

Imam prays some certain number of Fards, the

congregation is also obliged to pray the same Fards.

The following forms of congregation are disallowed 1

in our Religion :
a) When a man follows a woman or a child.

b) When a wise man follows mad man or a

drunkard.

84

not ‘ight to avoid praying in congregation except in

c) When an unexcused person follows an excu-
sed person.

If the Imam performs one Sajda extra or gets
up in the last’raka of the prayer, the congregation
does not follow him, on the other hand, waits for the
Imam patiently. If the Imam realises his mistake
and sits down without performing any Sajda in the
extra raka, then thé followers offer Salam together
with the Imam, but if the Imam performs Sajda,
then the followers offer Salam saparately.

If the Imam gets up in the last raka instead of
going to the Jalsa position (sitting) but‘does not
perform the Sajda whereas the followers offer Sa-
lam, then prayer performed by the followers (cong-
regation) becomes invalid; if the Imam gets up_ in
the last raka and performs also Sajda, then in this
case the prayer of the Imam and the followers (cong-
regation) will be invalid.

FRIDAY PRAYER SERVICE (DJUMA)

It's Fard to perform two rakaat of Friday Pra-
yer on Fridays and this prayer subsitutes the stated
noon prayer (Zuhr). Those who perform this prayer,
are not supposed to perform the noon prayer
(Zuhr). Before and after the Fard part of the Friday
prayer, four raka&t Sunna are also prayed. After the

85

Page 46:
last four rakaat Sunna of the Friday prayer, the four
rakaat under the name «Zuhr-ul Ahir» and two
rakaat under the name «Sunnat-tul-Vaqt» are also
. prayed.

The Friday prayer is performed always in cong-
regation. Sermon (Khutba) is delivered before —
Fard. It is Fard to deliver the sermon.

Friday prayer is not Fard for the following :
1 — Women.
2 — Those who are not free.

3 — Sick persons who are afraid that their
disease will increase and those persons looking after
sick persons. i

4 — Travellers.

5 — Those who are blind, paralysed and lame. ”
In case they pray the Friday prayer, then they are
not obliged to perform the noon prayer (Zuhr). i

If any one of the following conditions lacks, the ©
Friday prayer is not correct and complete :

1 — Beginning of the time for noon prayer

(Zuhr).

2 — Delivery of sermon (kliutba) befere the
Friday prayer. 4

86

3 — The place where the Friday prayer is to
be performed, sholud be open to everybody

4 — Besides the Imam, at last three persons
must be present.

5 — The Imam should be authorised to lead
the prayer.

6 — The place where Friday prayer is to be per-
formed, should be some village, town or city where,
a council of elders exists.

SERMON (Khutba)

Before the Fards of the Friday prayer, the Imam
goes on the pulpit, expresses his thanks and grati-
tudes to God and exhorts the Muslims to goodness
and advises them to be dutiful to Ged. The delivery
of Sermon (Khutba) at noon time and before the
Friday prayer; with the intention of delivering Ser-
mon (Khutba) before the congregation and not to
do anything between the prayer and Sermon, are all
important conditions. As soon as the call for prayer
(Azan) is recited on Friday every Muslim must leave
all his business and immediatly go tu the mesque.

Those who have some excuse or those for whom
the Friday prayer is not a Fard, should perform the
stated noon prayer of that day. Friday is a holy day

87

Page 47:
for every Muslim. Taking a bath, cleaning the body
and going to the mosque with new and clean clothes,
are part of the Islamic customs.

FUNERAL PRAYER (Salat-ul-Djanaza)

_ The Funeral prayer is Fard-ul-kifaye. It is a part
of supplication for the deceased. If it is performed’ by
a certain section of Muslims, the rest will be absol-
ved It is prayed while standing and consists of four
Takbirs. It is Sunna to perform the funeral prayer
at times which are not Makruh for all other prayers.

It is necessary that the deceased should be a Muslim; |

his body should be washed thoroughly. Also the de-
cessed should be present before the cong-egation
and the whole or a greater part of his body should
be present (the head and half of the body). The
funeral prayer is performed at a time which is not
disagreeable (Makruh) for the five stated prayers.

The funeral prayer is performed as under :

The Imam stands in front of the ranks opposite
the chest of the corpse.

The Imam opens the service py saying :

«I purpose to perform for this dead person pra-
yers to God consisting of four Takbirs. Then placing
his hands to the lops of his ears he recites the first
Takbir.

88

«God is the Great.

Afterwards he folds his hands below his breast
and recites the Tasbih. Holliness to God thus :

«HOlliness to Thee O Allah!

And to Thee be praise!

Blessed is Thy name,

High is Thy greatness,

There is no deity but Thee.» (Translation)

«Subhanaka Allahumma wa bi hamdika wa ta-
baraka ismuka wa taala jadduka wa jella sanaoka
wa la ill4ha ghayruk» (Transliteration)

Then the second Takbir is said without raising
the hands and the following verses are recited :

«Allahumma Salli Allahumma barik»
(Transliteration)

The supplication is said after the third Takbir.

After the fourth Takbir, by releasing hands,
Salam is offered by turning head firstly to the right
and then to the left.

Funerals for which prayers are not said :

1 — Abortive and dead born children.

2 — Those who kill their parents willingly.

3 — Highway robbers and brigands who are

killed. The funeral prayers are performed for the

executed and those who commit suicide.

89

Page 48:
we

pf
THE WADJIB PRAYERS-THE BAIRAM PRAYER

All Muslims celebrate two Bairams every year.

a) The Bairam of Ramadan (Eid-ul-Fitr) ; This
Bairam is celebrated on the first, second and _tlerd
of the lunar month of Shawwal.

b) The Sacrifice Bairam (Eid-ul-Adha) : This
Bairam is celebrated on the 10th, 11th 12th and
13 th of the lunar month of Dhul - Hadja.

The Bairam prayer is Wadjib and is performed
in congregation on the first day of both the Bairams
when the sun has arisen such that the shadow cast
by a person is twice his length.

In order to perform the Bairam prayer, the _

same conditions are prevalent as for the Friday
prayer. The delivery of Sermon (Khutba) in the
Bairam prayers is Sunna and is usually delivered
when the prayer is over.

The main difference between the Bairam and
stated prayers is that after the recitation of Subha-
naka, three Tekbirs are recited in the first raka of
the two rakaat Bairam prayer.

In the first two Takbirs, the hands are let loose
on sides and in the third Takbir, the hands are
fastened. In the second raka again three Takbirs are

90

recited before Rukfi (Bending) and in every three of
them the hands are let loose on the sides. These six
extra Takbirs in the Bairam prayers are Wadjib and
are the main cause of the difference between the Bai-
ram prayers and the five stated daily prayers.

It is meritorious to get up earlier, to perform
total ritual ablution, to perfume oneself, to go to the
mosque by wearing new clothes, to return home by
some other way after leaving the mosque in order
to mcet as many people as possible, to give plenty of
alms, to be cheerful and happy and to give Sadaqa--
tul-Fitr. before the commencement of the Eid-ul-Fitr
praver.

THE TASHRIQ TAKBIRS

These Takbirs are recited at the end of Fard
prayer, beginning from the morning prayer of the
preceding day of the Sacrifice Bairam and Jasting
upto the afternoon prayer of the fourth day of the
Bairam, and these Takbirs are named as the Tashriq
Takbirs :

Allahu Akbar, Allahu Akbar, La ilaha illal-lah

Allahu Akbar, Allahu Akbar wa Lillahil-hamd.

God is the Great. God is the Great.

There is no deity save Allah.

God is the Great. God is the Great.

Praise and Glory be to God.

91

Page 49:
‘It'S Wadjib for every Muslim, no matter whether
he is a citizen, villager, traveller, local inuzabitant,
man or woman to recite these Takbirs whether he
prays in congregation or individually.

SUNNA PRAYERS-SALATUL TARAWIH

Salatul Tarawih is from Sunna prayers, which
de not depend on Fards. Being the Sunna of Rama-
dan month and not that of Fasting, this prayer can
be performed even by the devotees who do not fast.
Salatul Tarawih is prayed in the lunar month of Ra-
madan alongwith. the night prayer (Isha) by every
Muslim whether man, woman, resident or traveller.
It consists of twenty rakaat which can be prayed
individually or in congregation just after the perfor-
mance of the last two rakaat Sunna of the night
prayer. When it is prayed in congregation, then the
Witr prayer is also performed in congregation after
the Tarawih prayer. Usually the devotee performs
this prayer such that he offers Salam at the end of
each two rakaat, thus the whole prayer is said in
ten batches. It is more meritorious to pray this pra-
yer in ten batches each consisting of two rakaat. One
can also pray it in five batches, each consisting of
four rakaat. In the latter case, in the first sitting, Al-
lahumma Salli, Allahumma Barik alongwith the
supplicatin are recited just after At-tahiyat. At the

92

beginning of the third raka both Imam and follow-
ers recite Subhanaka. After every Salam, a part of
Salawat - Sharifa or some verses from the holy Ku-
ran are recited.

Salawat Sharifa is to pronunce the formula oa
ling God’s Benedictions on the Prophet (Peace be
upon-Him).

TRAVELLER'S PRAYER (SALATUL-MUSAFIR)

Those who have the intention of staying less
than fifteen days and make a journey lasting eigteen
hours’s walking (90 kilometres) or longer than this
are considered in Islamic Religion as travellers (Mu-
safir), no matter if this journey is done by train,
aeroplane or ship. According to religous instructions,
travelling should not be less than three days (18
hours’s walking or 90 kilometres) and the traveller
should be wise, adult and should express his inten-
tion for undertaking that journey.

If the traveller had an intention of staying for a

period less than fifteen days but stays longer than
this limit of time, he is still considered as traveller
(Musafir).

Because every journey is associated more or
less with some difficulties, due to this fact our Reli-
zion has brought some facilities in certain devotions
for travellers.

93

Page 50:
¥

a) ¥ In the state of journey, four rakaat Fards
have been cut short to two rakaat Fards.

b) If there is no sufficient time ur the travel-
ler has some troubles in his business, then he can
leave the Sunna part of the prayer.

c) Travellers can rub their mest, put on after
proper ablution for three days and three nights:

d) The traveller has an option to fast or not
to fast in the fasting month of Ramadan, but if he
fasts, his act is more blessed. He must fast the equal
number of days in case of eaten fasts. .

In the Islamic Religion, there are no hardships.
All the commadments are based on easiness. We
pray to God Almighty as well as we can.

The facilities given in case of travelling also
depend upon this principle. The same is true in case
of sick and excused persons.

Sick Man’s Prayer

Those patients who are unable to perform their
prayer while standing, can do so by sitting If they
have no sufficient strength or might to stand on
their feet, they can perform their prayers by just
bowing their head on their seats or beds. If they
cannot do this, then they can leave their prayers to
some other time. ‘

94

Late Performance of Omitted Prayers (Kadha)
The performance of the five stated prayers in time
is called (Eda) and the performance of the prayer
after its proper time has expired is called Kadha in
the Islamic terminology. In case of omitted prayer,
only Fard part of the stated prayer is to be perfor-
med but in case of omitted night prayer, the Fard
and the Witr part are to be performed. Omitted Fri-
day prayer, Bairam prayers, Funeral prayer and the
Sunna prayers are not reperformed as Kadha (the
only. exception being two Sunna rakaat of the mor-
ning prayer which can be performed on the same day
upto noon alongwith the Fards).

The devotee can perform again his missed pra-
yer at any time he likes except at sunrise, sunset and
sinking of the sun afternoon.

In case one is not sure about the time of the
omitted prayers one can perform again, starting eit-
her from the first or the last prayer.

Therefore, while expressing the intention, the
devotee says for instance, «I intended to perform
again the first or last Fard parts of the noon or after
noon prayer omitted by me.

HOLY DAYS AND HOLY NiGHTS IN
ISLAMIC RELIGION

Some days and nights are holy and blessed in
our Religion. It is glad tidings for the devotees that

95

Page 51:
“t
fh

spending these days and nights in prayers and in
obedience to God, brings a great reward. In these
nights it is meritorious, to pray to God, to perform
again the omitted prayers, to recite the holy Kuran,
to recite Salawat Sharifa for the Prophet (peace be
upon him) and to fast and perform the Nafl prayers
in these holy days. The holy days and holy n‘ghts are
the following:

(a) The lunar month of Ramadan especially the
last ten nights. The Night of Power comes in these
ten nights. The Night of Power (Ley!etul Kadar) is
better than the thousand months (Kuran).

(b) The first:nights of the two Bairams. He

who spends these two nights in prayer and in sub- —

mission to God, will be properly rewarded and his
demands will be accepted.

(c) The first ten nights of the lunar month of
Dhul-Hidjdja.

(d) The day preceding the first day of the Sac-

_Tifice Bairam.

(e) Fifteenth night of the lunar month of Shab-
ban.

(£) The night of the first Friday alongwith the
fifteenth and twenty-seventh nights of the lunar
month of Radjab.

(g) Friday nights.

96

THIRD FUNDAMENTAL PRINCIPLE OF ISLAM
3 FASTING

Fasting : Fasting is an abstention from eating,
drinking and having sextual intercourse, starting
from dawn and ending at sunset. It is a physical
devotion.

It is a Fard for every adult and wise Muslim to
fast in the lunar month of Ramadan. Fasting is not
a Fard for both children and mad people. Fasting is
prohibited for those-women who have menstruation
and a recent child-birth. Whoever is sick or on a
journey and also women who are with child or
who give to suck, have been asked not to fast in the
holy lunar month of Ramadan, but they shculd fast
a like number of days at some appropriate time ot- -
her than Ramadan. It is from the Fards of fasting
to express intention for fasting, to know the time of
beginning and ending of fasting (From breaking of
dawn upto sunset) and to refrain from all those
things which affect fasting.

The time of intention of fasting in the month of
Ramadan begins with the sunset and lasts nian the
forenoon of the next day.

97

Page 52:
The devotee must intend also fasting from sun-
set upto dawn for those days for which he could not
fast in the holy month of Ramadan and also in case
of vow and atonement fastings.

Intention is always inwardly. To state it with a
word of mouth is meritorious.

DIFFERENT KINDS OF FASTING

Those fasts which are Fards : Fasting in the
month of Ramadan, fasting for those days omitted
in the Ramadan month and atonement fasting.

Those fasts which are Wadjibs : These are vow q

fasting and fasting of those vow and Nafl fasts which
were not intentionally observed.

Those fasts which are Sunna: These are
the fasts which are not covered by the first and
second categories, like fasts kept on the 9th and
10th of the lunar month of Muharrem.

Those fasts which are Miastehab : (Recom-
mended but not enjoined) : These are the fasts
kept on the 13th, 14th of every lunar month.

Those fasts which are Makruh : (Disagreeable):
Fasting on the Persian new year eve( Nevruz) and

on the 10th of Muharrem is disagreeable (Makruh). 4

“Those fasts which are Prohibited : Fasting on
the first day of Eid-ul-Fitr and the four days of the
Eid-ul-Adha.

98

THINGS WHICH VIOLATE FASTING

It is prohibited to break fast intentionally and
willingly while in state of fasting.

It is necessary to fast a like number of days in
case one omits fasts, this is called «Kadha Fasts»

Those who do not fast without any canonical
reason, have to fast a like number of days and also
they have to fast on other days as atonement which
is a type of punishment for them. It is named as
«Kaffaret Fast».

Kaffaret Fast

It is a worldy punishment of breaking fast in-
tentionally. It is the fasting for two months without
any break with the condition that the lunar month of
Ramadan does not come in these two months. It is
necessary to keep «Kaffaret Fasts» for two months
substituted for those Fasts which are violated by
eating, drinking on purpose or having an intercourse,
in addition to a like number of days corresponding
to the violated days of fasting. At the same time it
is a case of Kadha and Kaffaret. The Ramadan Fasts
which are violated by eating or drinking intentio-
nally all those things which we do not usually eat or
drink, are accomplished by fasting only a like num-
ber of days. It is only Kadha.

a

99

Page 53:
‘To’ swallow up the accumulated saliva, to do
hard work thus weakening our bedy, to take blood
out from the body are all those things which will
decrease the reward of fasting if at all they do not
spoil it.

These things are named Makruh (disagreeable).

To smell something, to use kohl at the outer
corner of the eye, to take blood out such that body
does not become weak, to brush one’s teeth and to
do other like th! gs are not considered Makruh
(disagreeable).

THINGS WHICH DO NOT VIOLATE FAST

If a devotee eats or drinks something uncons-
ciously, he should stop that as soon as he becomes
aware of it. To have a venereal dream, to spend the
night canonically unclean and entry of dust and
smoke in our throat and nose, do not violate the fast.

To rise up from one’s slep before dawn and take
a meal is called Sahur, to get this meal as late as
possible before the dawn-break and to hurry in
breaking on’s fast and to recite prayers on breaking
the fast are all blessed acts.

Fasting is a great devotion performed bodily
towards our Creator. God almighty gives the reward
of fasting Himself. Fasting has got so many advan-
tages from the body and soul poirt of view.

100

FOURTH FUNDAMENTAL PRINCIPLE OF ISLAM
ZAKAT (LEGAL ALMS)

It is the duty of every rich Muslim (man or
woman) to give to the poor people legal alms (Zakat)
yearly at a rate of one fortieth of his possessions.

The definition of a rich man in Islam is as
follows :

That person who after paying his debts has net
80.18 grams of Gold and suffices his subsistences
(This Gold may be in the form of coins, ingots, je-
vellery or any other form).

Or he who has 561 grams of Silver (This Silver
may be in coins, ingots, jewellery or any other from).

Those who have money or other commercial
business worth 80.18 grams of Gold or 561 grams of
Silver are, also considered as rich men.

A man who has some Gold, some Silver and so-
me commercial business whose total value becomes
equal to the above value, is also considered to be a
rich man in our Islamic religion.

101

Page 54:
IfGold and Silver are found mixed with other
metals and this mineral has a major portion of Gold
or Silver in it, then it is considered to be pure Gold
or Silver and accordingly we must give the comman-
ded legal alms (Zakat).

LEGAL ALMS (ZAKAT) IN CASF. OF ANIMALS

He who has paid his debts and sufficed his sub-
sistences and who owns forty sheep or goats which
have been fed for the greater part of the year on
pasture, should give one sheep or goat or he can
give the equivalent amount of money. He who has
more than thirty cattle which are fed on pasture for
the greater part of the year should give at the end
of the year one calf one year old He who has five

- camels is also considered to be rich in Islam. *

THOSE EXEMPTED FROM LEGAL ALMS (ZAKAT)

He who has Gold, Silver, money, possessions or
animals whose values lie in the limits of legal alms
but one year has not yet passed after he possessed
them, should not pay the legal alms (Zakat).

(*) Please refer to the list at the end of this book which
includes the necessary proportions of the legal alms
(Zakat) for sheep, goats catlle and camels.

102

Gold, Silver, money, property or animals less
than the above mentioned limits, are exmpted from
the legal alms. Jewellery like diamonds, pearls,
emeralds, rubies and other precious stones which
women use as ornaments, are also exempted from
the legal alms.

Properties like houses, apartments, orchards,
gardens, shops, shopping-centres, large commercial
buildings, baths and hotels, are also excluded from
the legal alms (Zakat). But if their income ‘s within
the given limits of Zakat and one year has already
passed then’ the legal alms should be given.

Furnitures and household effects are also
exempted from Zakat.

If one has property within the limits of legal
alms but at the same time he is underdebt, then he
is not supposed to pay the legal alms. But if his
property exceeds his debts, then he should pay the
legal alms. Things under use like animals, cars,
ships, aeroplanes and the instruments undec use are
not subjected to Zakat.

One should not pay Zakat on the money lent to
some other poor person. It is an important condition
of Zakat to have an intention while separating or
giving the legal alms.

103

Page 55:
Whom We Should Give The Legal Alms

We must give the legal alms to those poor per-
sons who are not in a position to pay the legal alms
(Zakat);

To those who are needy and poor;
To those who are under debt;

To those way-farers who have remained penni-
less in the desert and wilderness;

To poor soldiers;

To poor captives and to immigrants.

Whom We Should Not Give Zakat

One should not give the legal alms to his parents
or grand-parents or his children or grand-children.

Wife and husband should not give Zakat to one

ancther.
Zakat should not be given to those who are in
a position to give Zakat themselves or to non-Mus-
lim poor people. :
We should not use the money substitute for Za
kat in constructing and restoring mosques, founta-
ins and other similar things.

104

It is meritorious to take into consideration the
following order when the legal alms are to be given.

1. To relatives according to their degree of
relation.

2. To neighbours, to poor people of the quar-
ter, town or city.

3. To poor people of one’s own mother-land.
4. To poor Muslims outside one’s country.

If rich people give Zakat perfectly by taking
into consideration the above mentioned order, then
they obtain God’s blessings by just fulfilling His
Commandments.

Because of this, they win the regard and affec-
tion of their fellow-beings. Charity and legal alms
remove the unpleasantness between the rich and the
poor. As for society, it gives rise to unity and affec-
tion. A

When a rich man who loves his wealth and pos-
session whole-heartedly, gives some of his wealth to
his poor brothers, he becomes a happy man who
attains both God’s and his brothers’s consent.

SADAQATUL-FITR

It is Wadjib for every Muslim who is considered
rich in our Religion to give the poor people 1460

105

Page 56:
grams of wheat or 2920 grams of barley, dry gra-
pes, dates or the money equal to the price of these
commodities. This is named as Sadaqatul-Fitr (alms
which Muslims are required to give at the end of
fasts of Ramadan.

The rich parents should pay for their small chil-
dren. These alms are given to the poor Muslims and
are not given to rich people; to poor non-Muslims;
to parents; to the children; to the grand-children; to
the wife or to the husband.

It is meritorious to pay these alms befure _the
commencement of the Bairam prayer.

106

THE FIFTH FUNDAMENTAL PRINCIPLE OF
ISLAM: PILGRIMAGE (HAJ)

Pilgrimage: It is Fard for every adult, wise,
streng and rich Muslim to perform the pilgrimage
once in his life by making circuits around the Kaba
and paying visits to the holy places. Pilgrimage is a
devotion performed both by body and money. The
poor, crippled and paralysed persons are not obliged
to perform pilgrimage. The way to pilgrimage should
also be safe and sound. )

It is not good for a man for whom the _pilgri-
mage is not Fard to sell all his possesions in order
to perform it.

There are some basic elements of pilgrimage :

1. Paying visits and making circuits around the
Kaba (called Tawaf in Islam)

2. Staying in the plains of Mount Arafat
(Wukuf).

107

Page 57:
“Conditions for the Correct Performance of Pilg- {

rimage :

It is necessary for every pilgrim to fulfil the |

’ following four conditions for his intended _pilgri-

mage :
1.

108

The most important condition is that the —

pilgrim should be a Muslim.

He should enter into Ihram (Ihram repre- 4
sents the severance of all worldly connec-

tions).

The Pilgrimage should be performed in
time.

The Pilgrimage should be performed at the
proper places.

The Wadjibs of Pilgrimage

1.

To assume the garb worn by the pilgrims
during the performance of rites of pilgri-
mage at Mikat.

To be present at Mount Arafat late after ‘

evening.

To be present at Al-Muzdalifa on the first
day of Eid-ul-Adha after dawn and before
sunrise.

11.

12.
13.

To throw pebbles at the pillars.

To sacrifice an animal in the Qiran and Te-
mettou.

(Qiran: To perform the pilgrimage and
Umra rites wearing the same Ihram. Te-
mettou: To perform Umra first and then
the pilgrimage).

To get shaved and to have a hair-cut.:

To throw pebbles before getting shaved and
a hair-cut.

To perform sacrifice after throwing pebbles
and before getting shaved.

To perform the obligatory and fundamental
visits and circuits on sacrifice days.

To run seven times (Sa’y) between two
small hills neighbouring the Kaba and
known as Al-Safa and Al-Marwa. This should
be performed on the pilgrimage days and
after Tawaf. :

The inexcusable persons should perform
Sa’y on foot.

To begin Sa’y from the hill Safa.

To perform the farewell Tawaf fo- those
pilgrims coming from abrnad.

109

Page 58:
14: The inexcusable persons should perform
Tawaf on foot.

15. To perform Tawaf in the state of ablution.

16. To perform Tawaf by covering the parts of
the body, which must be covered as com-
manded by the religious laws.

17. To perform Tawaf by going round the back
side of the «Hatim’s Wall».

18. To pray two rakaat at the end of Tawaf.

19. To perform the last three turns of visiting —
a

Tawaf.

20. Not to do disallowed things during the state 4

of Thram.

21. To keep the clothes clean from dirtiness.

Procedure of Pilgrimage :

At the known places called Mikat, in the vicinity —
of Mecca the pilgrims divest themselves of their |
clothes to assume pilgrims’s robe which is called Ih- ~
ram. This garment consists of two seamless wrappers |
one being wrapped round the waist and the other ~
thrown over the shouldres. By intending to perform —
the pilgrimage, they recite the pilgrims’s supplica- ©

tion called the Talbiya or Labbayka, which means

110

«I stand up for Thy service, O God. I stand up». So
they arrive in Mecca. They stand before Djabul-ul

On the day before the Eid-ul-Adha, they arrive
at the holy place called Mount Arafat. They make
humble supplications to God, asking for His favour
of forgiveness of their sins and soliciting.

On returning, the sacrifice is performed, the
pebbles are thrown. Then the pilgrims return back
to Mecca and go around the Kaba seventimes. Ka-
ba is the direction to which each Muslim directs
himself while in the state of praying. They greet
and visit the Black Stone (Hadjar-ul-Aswad).

After visiting other sacred places, they go to
Medina.

At Medina they pay visits to the holy tomb of
the holy Prophet, say their prayers and ask God for
blessings.

SACRIFICE

It is also. Wadjib for a man who is charged with
giving Sadaqatul-Fitr to sacrifice an animal. Sacri-
fice means to shed blood-by slaughtering an animal
worth-sacrifice within three days of the Eid-ul-Adha
with the intention of devotion.

111

Page 59:
Animals worth-sacrifice are sheep, goats, cows,
oxen and camels.

Other animals are not worth-sacrifice. Sheep
and goats can be sacrificed by one person only;
cows, oxen and camels can be sacrificed by seven
persons.

These animals must be in good health, strong
and free from disease and defects. The devotees are
allowed to distribute all of the sacrificed meat to
pocr people or to eat all of it themselves. But it is

meritorious to divide it into three parts such that —

the first part goes to the poor persons, the second
part. to friends and relatives and the third part for
the use of one’s own family.

Live animals can not be given to the poor as
sacrifice because the flow of blood is essential. The
skin of the animal sacrificed should not be sold and
can be given to the poor or to a charitable foun-
dation.

By sacrificing an animal the devotee: fulfills the
¢ommandments of God and thus gains a good deed
and on the other hand he helps and assists the poor
and needy people. It is a big sin to avoid sacrifice.

In case when one is in a position to sacrifice
but does not do so, he is considered as having com-
mited a big sin. :

112

RELATION’ BETWEEN FAITH AND DEVOTION

Devotion purifies our soul and heart. It causes
us to achieve the blessings of God and the regards
of humanbeings. He who performs devotioi. within
the frame ordered by the Islamic Religion, gets hap-
piness and pleasure both in this world and in the
next world. Because to pray punctually five times
daily; to fast annually for one full month without
taking into consideration the cold or hot weather
and thus overcoming all the worldly desires and
passions; to give a part of his personal property to
the poor people without expecting any reciprocal;
to pay visits to the un known and unaccustomed
places and by bearing journey hardships for the
sake of performing pilgrimage and to suffer a series
of fatigues and to be bound by a series of restricti-
ons, are all different forms of devotions which requi-
re great effort, struggle and zeal.

A Muslim who does all these things for the sake
of God, is a free man who overcomes his passions

113

Page 60:
ae j
and 12 liveness, masters his will and never bows
his head to anybody except God. e
i of this type also consider others
: Rodiensein they do not have any bee
isis of acquiring the property, life and chestity i
any other person. That means they respect
human rights. 2
i , they live as the most respecte an
eka naeale in their societies and in all other
human communities.

114

THIRD CHAPTER
ETHICS IN ISLAM

Humanbeing can be considered to be composed
of two parts from the creation point of view.

(a) Material part, visible to eyes like flesh,
bone, blood, marrow and nerves.

(b) Spiritual part, invisible to eyes like thin-
king, feeling, knowing, deciding renouncing, rejo-
icing and grief.

The first of them is our body while the other is _
our soul. In spite of being quite different from each,
other, body and soul are connected togethe: in the
human being in such a way that disorderness in one
does effect the other.

The soul of a normal humanbeing is pure and
clean and his body is free from diseases.

Due to carelessness, different diseases affecting
our body can upset our constitution, however our

115

Page 61:
a

health can be restored by appropriate treatment and
cure. :
Like our body our soul can also be sick and be
“fax from its original character. There are some simi
lar treatment methods of our soul as for our body.
There are some principles for soul treatmer:t. These
principles and their execution ate given the name
of «Ethices»
In other words, ethics raises our body and
soul to that degree which enables us to perfcrm our

duties towards almighty God and His creatures. The —

i is j the
source of ethics in Islam is just the same as th
source of faith and devotion which refer to God, His
Holy book Koran, His messenger Muhammed (peace

be upon him) and his way of living. The aim of —

i ion i liever perfect
faith and devotion is to make the be
fT cuanbeing: The function of ethics is also the same.

Therefore, our beloved prophet said: «I have been

sent to accomplish moral virtues.»

If humanbeings as individuals cr as members —

of societies, face some difficulties, worries, pains

d calamities and think themselves as prisoners in
this world, this is due to the fact that they do not |

behave according to morale principles.

i ffairs :
Those people who have settled their ai ray
properly, who have percieved and performed their

116

duties toward their Creator and His créatures and
who have led a life according te God’s and His
prophet’s commandments are the happy ones who
have complied to ethics. The condition of those, who
during this worldly life have suffered hardships and
troubles, due to their own immorality as wel as those
who achieved happiness and blessings by following
the divine teachings and behaving ethically will con-
tinue eternally after their death, because man
will reap in the next world what he sows in this
world. In order to reach happiness and pleasure
have'complied to ethics. The condition of those, who
both in this world and in the next world we are
supposed to fulfil the following moral obligations.

I — Our duties towards God and His prophet,
II — Our duties towards ourselves,

III — Our duties towards our. families and. rela-
tives,

IV — Our duties towards our homeland and
nation,

V — Our duties towards humanity.

I — a) OUR DUTIES TOWARDS GOD.

An ardent believer who believes in the existence,
unity of God, His divine attributes and that there
is no deity except Him, always remembers His bless-

117

Page 62:
ed name with respect and regard; gives himself up
fully to Him, obeys His orders and refrains from His
prohibitions.

He keeps his felt love above all other things.

With these blessed feelings, he pays his slavery debt
_by connecting himself wholly to God. In this way he
reaches happiness both in this world and in the next
world.

I — b) OUR DUTIES TOWARDS PROPHETS. —

After God, we love whole-heartedly His messen- :
ger, our beloved prophet Muhammed (peace be upon —

him) who is the most worthy of respect.

Because this exalted prophet freed all the hu- —
manity from the perversion and darkness with the

divine orders and revelation; he enlightened the
world with the light of knowledge, civilisation and

virtue, he opened the doors of happiness of this —
world and next world; he showed the straightest
and most blessed path and made us achieve the ;

real prosperity.

His gracious and honourable life passed with his 4
strife and struggle for the welfare and happiness of ©
all mankind in both worlds. It is the duty of every —

real Muslim to believe that the holy prophet has been
sent to all humanbeings and that the course shown

118

and followed by him, is the straightest, realest and
the sole means of salvation, and he should not de-
part at all from the footprints of our prophet even
for one minute.

II) OUR DUTIES TOWARDS OURSELVES ~

In order to fulfill our duties towards Creator
and His creatures we should protect our bodies and
souls from the material and spiritual diseases and

, should promote our aptitudes to be in a position to
do the duties, we are charged with.

The protection of our body and soul from every
type of diseases which will hinder the perfc rmance
of our duties is only possible if we know the princip-
les of hygiene and strictly follow them. Therefore
our beloved prophet said «On the day of judgement,
man will be first of all interrogated whether he had
protected his health or not».

In our religion even devotions suit very much
the principles of health. Devotions like ablution and
ritual total ablution which include the washing of
the whole body and cleaning of these organs which
become frequently dirty like hands, face. mouth,
nose and feet renders our parts always neat and
clean. Body health is the biggest of all innumerable
blessings bestowed upon us. Our beloved prophet

119

Page 63:
a
wf

said.” vealwave wish from God good health, because
after a strong belief, a great blessing like health has
not been given to any of us.» With an intension not
to become sick it is our most important duty to-
wards ourselves to refrain from everything which
brings disease; not to-act negligently in taking every
precaution necessary for the recovery after having
been sick. Our exalted prophet said, «O creature of
God! Get cured because God almighty did not give
any disease which is not curable. Ride horses and
shoot bows and arrows and give rest to your hearts
every now and then.»

To protect ourselves from the contagious disea-
ses; to practise the principles of health, to refrain
from eating and drinking all those things injurious

to our health and forbidden by our religion and to _

defend ourselves from harmful acts, are our duties
towards ourselves.

Soul Education

The soul of a man is pure ard clean from the
creation point of view. It has been created with an
ability to fulfill all the duties towards Creator and
the other creations. There are some factors respon-
sible for the sickness of our soul like bodily diseases
wkich hinder the soul functions. The role of ethics
is to protect our soul from the diseases preventing

126

it to perform its duties and.also teaches the precau-
tionary measures against diseases.

Spiritual Dieases and Their Treatment

Obstinacy and Indecision : Obstinacy means re-
sisting and insisting strongly on a certain decision
taken without prior thinking. A stubborn man does
not accept any idea by anybody and does what he
wants.

It is called the rebellious case of wil! These
stubborn people always do harm to their fellow be-
ings and commit sins and mistakes. So far indecision
is concerned it is the weakness of willpower; like obs-
tinacy indecision is also a spiritual disease People
of this kind behave with the wills of others and thus
become servants of servants. Due to this fact they
can not fulfill their duties in a right way towards
their Creator and His Creations.

Treatment Mearis : One must be persevering and
firm; which means that one should not change his
decision which is taken after thorough knowledge
and experience. This state of affairs is a virtue for
the humanbeings. These useful superior and meritori-
ous deeds are the work of all these people who pos-
sess this quality. Obstinacy and indecision can be
removed by firmness and perseverance. Our religion
orders us to be firm and persevering.

121

Page 64:
Retr Excitement and Extreme Cowardice :

To begin with something at once without weigh-
ing all considerations and thus putting into risks is

‘also another spiritual disease. All guilts and crimes —

are committed due to this fact. Anger and violence
are some type of madness. Thinking-power cannot
work at the moment of anger and rage, goes out of
cortrol and man does not know what he has done.
- Qver-cowardice which is just the opposite of over-
excitement is also blame-worthy. Our beloved prop-
het has revealed the badness of cowardice in these
words «My God, Shelter me from cowardice».

Treatment Means: One should be valiant and —

master of passions. It is a moral virtue to be the
master of passions, sentiments and deviations and

to curb them. The people of this category are master
of their words and deeds, they never get excited —
and angry against any type of incident but remain a
calm and quiet. They use their will in the light of ~

wisdom and knowledge and never go astray.

Bravery is strength of the heart and firmness 7

of will, people of this kind face patiently the calami-
ties and pains of life and tell the truth everytime
without any hesitation, they act according to the
principles of truth and justice.

122

Self-Admiration-Arrogance (Haughtiness)
Self-Humiliation-(Sluggishness )

These cases are also spiritual diseases. The hu-
manbeings are equal from the creation and law
point of view and possess equal rights. In spite
of all this, proud people look down upon others by
relying upon their properties, positions and material
possessions and attach no importance to those of
their status. Those having pride in their souls gather
every type of bad habit in them, these habits pre-
vent them frem becoming good and virtueous and
they can never accept the truth because this is a
burden for their souls. So, God never likes proud

people.

Treatment Means: One should be modest and
dignified. Man can win the love of others by modesty
and their respect by dignity. One also knews that
those who follow God’s shown path are nearer to
Him. The miaterial existences like property, position
and possessions... etc. do n lt a man. Greatness
is only achieved by good character. The dignified pe.
ople always protect their positions and their honour.
Modesty and dignity are amongst the superior cha-
racters which complete each other. Those who poss-
ess these characters are loved by God and also -by
their fellow-beings. Therefore, our beloved prophet _

123

Page 65:
Fi
of

- said :°«God:elevates that'xnarr who: behaves-modestly
towards his Muslim brothers, and, vilifies.that man
who is proud and lofty. As for modest people if they
are even in the-depth of a well, God can take them
out by just a blow of wind, Behave modestly tewards
those who are modest and behave with pride towards
the lofty people. Pride towards a proud man.is a
good deed.»

Shamelessness ‘and Cheekiness-Shame and ‘poli-
teness : One of the bad habits and‘charactets which
influence the soul of a man is ‘shamelessness and
cheekiness. Victims of this disease are not che
master of their will. Therefore they can not ‘refrain
from every type of evil. These people who never
are ashamed of God or of other people have been
_ deprived of every type of human virtues and have
fallen into the lowest depth of animality. Our belo-
ved prophet said «If you do not feel ashamed.do
whatever you like.» -

Treatment Means: One must be full of shame
and politeness. Shame means soul's boring end gett+
ing impreseed from every thing avhich is considered
to be bad in our religion. Shame and: politeness are
the real criterion of the human virtues. These virtue-
ous people remain far away from wickedsess and
vileness. This character protects its owner from

_ every shameful act, becatise tie-who-is shy from God,

124

obeys His.orders and tefrains from His prohibitions.
These shy people do not attack the humanrights at
any cost They fulfil their duucs.in the complete
ana proper way Tc teel,shy is the.ornament of man.
The beliet of shameless people is incomplete.

Lying and Cheating

The lying. people always:say exactly the opposite
to. what. they feel-and know:,.These people are dep-
rived of every virtue. Lying removes the peace and
comfort from the human soul and makes man live

in tortures. ‘The worst of lying is false testimony and
petjury. God almighty has cursed -those who lie.

Lying is.a sign of Hypocrisy

Cheating is also hypocrisy. Cheaters have no
value and respect among people. Cheating 1s a bad
character which upsets the order of society and spo-
ils the social life. Cheatet isa companion of Satan.

Every body avoids the company of these people-
ee: ahaa prophet said, «Let God curse all those
who it my followers in the religious and Id-
ly affairs.» bos i

Treatment. Means : Truth and Honesty

: Truth is the spiric-of islam. Honesty means to
be sincére in ‘faith, in doing duties towards the Crea-

125

Page 66:
tor and His creations... etc. A true man always says
what he thinks and knows. True people are loved
and respected both by God and mankind. Therefore,
we should not make our children accustemed to
lying even for the cause of humour. To protect our
souls from the disease of lying is our biggest moral
obligation. Our beloved prophet said, «One who tells
a lie for once, gets the malediction three times, lying
decreases the abundance of sustenance. The biggest
sin is to tell lies».

Holding a secret is also a kind of truth and is
our moral obligation. The sayings of Caliph Ali that
«Secret is your slave as long as your hold it and once
~ you disclose it you will be in turn its slave» are great
. expressions of wisdom.

Breach of Trust

To use that which has been entrusted to us in
a bad way is a breach of trust. Islam _ states that
those who are dishonest are bare of faith and are
hypocrites. Dishonest people are the germs of the

' society. :

Our beloved prophet said, «Return what you
have been entrusted with to its owner. Do not be
dishonest towards those who are dishonest towards
you Honesty is like richness, that means an honest

126

man is the possessor. of dignity and respect, and
those who are dishonest are deprived of the perfec-
tion of faith.»

Treatment Means: One must be trust-worthy
Trust whether material or spiritual is a right given
to man for preservation. Money, property, work,
honour, chastity and secret entrusted to us for safe-
guard is trust. It is our duty to take care of, to safe
guard and then to return what we have been entrus-
ted with to their owners. The orders of God are also
a kind of trust. It is our moral obligation to obey
them. Each one of our personal and national duties
are also a kind of trust, to perform them word by
word is also our moral duty according to the divine
orders. The greatest quality for a man ‘is to be ho-
nest. To sum up, to purify our souls and wills from
the attack of molesting diseases like obstinacy, inde-
cision, extreme excitement, extreme cowardice, pri-
de, sluggishness, cheekiness, lying, cheating, breach
of trust, anger, passion, grudging envying, dissolu-
teness,... etc; and to accustom ourselves to the
qualities which elevate our souls like firmness, per-
severance, bravery, to master our souls, modesty,
dignity, shame, politeness, truth, honesty, security,
patience, contentment, forgiving.. etc; are all moral
duties we are obliged to do.

127

Page 67:
HI — OUR DUTIES TOWARDS OUR FAMI-
LIES AND RELATIVES

Family is composed of wife and husband,
parents, children and relatives. Famiuy is the small-
est example of the nucleus of society. Societies are

composed of” families. The mutual duties between .

the members of a family have got a great importance.
Those who fulfill these duties in a right way serve
for the survival and endurance of society; whereas,
those who do not, upset the order and system of
society and these unlucky people are bare of indivi-
dual and social education. Man learns first of all in
his ‘family, his duties towards his Creator and the
creatures é.g. to respect the elders to act compassi-
onately towards youngers and fullfil other duties to-
wards his country and humanity. Family is the pri-
mary source of love and good manners.

The Mutual Duties of the Family Members.

1 — The mutual duties of wife and husband.

2 — The duties of parents towards children and
vice versa.

3 — The mutual duties of brothers. i
4 — The mutual duties of relatives towards
each other.

128

1 — Wife and Husband and their mutual duties

a) Wife and husband are two bases of the fa-
mily which is established with marriage This is
why marriage plays an imporant role in Islam. The’
establishment of family and the formation of the
societies take place with marriage. Therefore, our
beloved prophet (peace be upon hin) said, «Get
married and grow in number because I will be proud
with your augmentation over the other religious
communities on the Day of Judgement»,

b) The most valuable treasure of a nation is
its population. The survival of a society with discip-
line and decorum depends on it.

c) Man finds necessary peace and calmness,
the most sincere feelings of love and affections in
the warm laps of his parents.

d) Those who do not get married without any
evident reason, are considered escaped from their
personal and human duties because man can pre-
serve his human virtues honour and chastity only

by getting married.

e) Man is the head of a family. ‘Wherefore -he
has to manage all the external things to ensure” als
the needs of his family, for this reason he should
have some job and business. Ip a family a husband

129

Page 68:
is chi with teaching religious and worldly
. to his wife and be always gentle, tee
and tender-hearted towards women. Our be whe
‘ prophet said, «Only those who are noble meric
treat women honorably and respectfully and
betray and behave with them disrespectfully are
people». The wife is responsible for the maintenance
of her house in a safe and sound way, for aetorer
her husband as the head of the family to be attache
to him with love and respect; to pay the greatest

importance for the health, growth and education of q
her children; not to waste the earnings of her hus- :
band and to look after the order and neatness of 4
her house. It is also her duty to protect her chasti- q
ty, honour and loyality with perfect devotion to her ~
husband inside and otuside home. Our beloved prop- q
het said «On the day of judgement, a woman will q
be asked first of all about prayers und then about -
whether she had been loyal to her husband or not.

A woman who says her prayers, keeps fast and pro-

tects herself from copumitting sins, will go straight a
to paradise». A family has great importance in Is- ;
lam. If the wife and husband, who are the two foun- q
dations of their family, perceive the mutual rights if
and duties and behave in a befitting manner, their a

family will be full of happiness and pleasure.

130

2: The Duties of Parents Towards Their Children
and Duties of Children Towards Their Parents.

It is the-‘most important duty of the parents to
bring up their kids whom they gave birth to, in
such a way that they prove to be useful members of
their society and all the humanity. Therefore, the
parents should be very careful about their children’s
body and soul soundness, and their religious educa-
tion with an intention to enable them to lead a good
future life. They are responsible for their f30d and
clothes according to their honestly acquired means
and they should love and treat them in a nice way.
Our beloved prophet said, «Look after your, child-
ren carefully and educate them in a good way, beca-
use the parents are responsible to the society and
also to God for bringing up their children aicely.»

The Duties of Children Towards Their Parents.
It is the religious and human obligation of the child-
ren to respect and be kind to their parents with their
properties, acts and behaviour, not to say even «Fie»
unto them; not to be inconsiderate at all; not to
show their boredom and not injure their hearts, The
children should speak unto them a gracious word
with a smiling face; not to disobey their orders; to
seek their consent in every matter, to try to make
them happy, to prefer their affairs to their own affa-
irs, to remember them always with compassion and

131

Page 69:
ae
blessings and to act in such a way that the parents
are brought to mind automatically. God almighty
has ordered us how to behave respectfully and kindly
towards our parents in His holy book Koran, «Thy
‘God hath decreed, that ye worship none save Him
and ye show kindness to parents. If one of them or
both of them attain old age with thee. say not «Fie»
unto them nor repulse them, but speak unto them a
gracious word. And lower unto them the wing of
submission through mercy and say: My lord, Have
mercy on them both as they did care for me when
I was little. Your Lord is best aware of what is in

your minds. If ye are righteous then lo. He was —

ever Forgiving unto those who turn unto Him.» It
is the duty of their sons towards their parents to

be respectful when they are alive in this world. —

Alongwith the respect which we show to our parents
when they are alive in this world, we should also

remember them with mercy and compassion, to —

pray always for their benediction, te pay their debt

if any and to fulfill their wills and to respect their q

friends.

3: Duties of Brothers Towards Each Other:
* “Brothers are like-the branches of a,tree. They come: '
“brought up
with the same fowd and edueafion. Therefore, the |
brother-hood bond should not be broken for the

‘from thee mié*source*and have:

132

~

sake of benefits like money and property. Those who
do not respect the rights of their brothers, also do
not respect the rights of others. This attitude does
not suit the Islamic ethics. It is our moral obligation
to consider their rights equal to ours. It is necessary
to respect the malso. Our holy prophet said. «The
rights of the elder brother towards his. younger
brother are like those of a father towards his child-
ren». Those who respect their brothers’ rights and
behave towards them nicely and continue to act
according to these fraternal rights upto their deaths
are civilised, virtueous and happy people.

4: The Mutual Duties of Relatives :

Our religion commands us to behave towards
our relatives with family feelings to love and respect
all of them according to their degree; to help needy
people; not to forget them; to visit them at an app-
ropriate time just to please them; to send letters”
and gifts to those who are far from us, in order to
show favour. So _ this is our moral _ obligation to
strengthen the family linkages.

They are not good people who do not love their
relatives. It is not agreeable in Islam to offend and
to hurt the hearts of the relatives good for nothing.
A family takes strength and power from relatives.

133

Page 70:
ee

Our holy prophet said, «For a child who has no
father, his maternal uncele is in his father’s place.
His maternal aunte is in his mother’s place and his —
paternal uncle is again in his father’s place.» Islam
paternal uncle is again in his father’s place.» Islam
has recognised rights for those who serve in our
houses. We are obliged to give them for eating what
we eat, for wearing what we wear and to look after
them just like a member of our family ard to give
importance to their health and spiritual education.
Vicinity right comes just after the relatives, rights. —
It i: our duties to treat our neighbours well, to fulfil
their needs and not to harm them at any cost. Our —
beloved prophet said, «A neighbour has got many ~
rights over his neighbour. A man who is sattiated q
with food whereas his neighbour is iimgry, can not ~
be a perfect believer» He who believes in God and
in the other world must behave kindly towards his
neighbours. Those whose neighbours feel no security
from their bad beeds, are not perfect beli-
evers».

IV — OUR DUTIES TOWARDS OUR HOMELAND
AND NATION :

God has created man with the apptitude to live
in society. It is called the civil and social case of a
humanbeing. Every community in this world has
formed a political society within certain borders.

134 |

This is called the state and the power which repre-
sents it, is called Government. All those people who
live in their homeland and form their Government,
are called nation.

Our state is the Turkish state, our Government
is called Republican Government of Turkey and our
nation is the Turkish nation. The Muslim Turkish
nation is one of the oldest, famous, honoured and
greatest nations of the world. Turkish History which
does honour humanity is full of great achievements
in the field of administration, military, civilisation
and human virtues which are not frequently enjoyed
by all other nations. The source and nourishment of
this matchless heroism is faith. As it happened in
the past, today also we are indebted to our faith
for our distinguished positions. The love for homel-
and comes from faith and a non-believer has no pat-
riotism- in his heart for his homeland.

The survival of every state depends upon the
mutual performance of duties between the nation
and its government.

Duties of a Nation Towards Its Government : It
is the duty of everybody to love his nation and state:
to struggle for its prosperity and progress to obey
the rules and orders of his Government. And the
same has also been ordered by our holy Koran. Every

135

Page 71:
we

* body is forced to help his government with proper-
ty and life in order to enable her to defend the ho-
meland from internal and external attacks and to
‘be successful in performing her national affairs in
a right way.

The help given with property is called tax and
that given with life is called the military service.

Every citizen should protect his country against —

the enemy's aggression; join the military service in

order to guarantee peace and rest of the common q
people. This duty is also an order of the religion. —

Military service is-to protect the country; honour;

respect and glory against enemies. The army which —

performs this honourable service is the armed force
which is ready to sacrifice even their lives. The mili-

tary service is the highest duty to the nation and
government because it is the tax of blood and life. 4
In our religion the soldicrship occupies an eminent a
position. If a warrior dies during the war, he attains a

the honour of martyrdom (shchadet); if he survives,
he gets the honour of championship .of Islam (Gha-
zi). The Honour of martyrdom comes next te proph-
ecy in the next world. Our beloved prophet said,

«The sins of those who attain the honour of martyr- ~

dom while fighting on ground, are pardoned except
for their duties towards their fellow-beings. While
all the sins of those martyrs in the sea, are pardoned

136

including their duties towards their fellow-beings.»
Not to join the army by inventing different lame ex-
cuses or to desert after joining it, is traitory, cowar-
dice and also a great sin.

V — OUR DUTIES TOWARDS ALL MANKIND
AND HUMAN RIGHTS

God almighty has created man free and all the
humanbeings are free without any exception. Free-
dom in its widest meaning means that everyman
can think and do what he wishes but actually it is
not possible. A man is considered to be free as long
as he recognises the freedom of others. So the free-
dom of somebody ends at the border of the freedom
of others. Besides their freedom rights, all human-
beings are charged with the recognition and the res-
pect of freedom of others. This means that like all
the rights they possess they are having also mutual
duties towards each other at the same time. Our
religion has ordered in an open and perfect form
about all rights and duties of mankind. God almighty
has ordered in the holy Koran, «Lo. Allah enjoineth
justice, kindness and goodness. Do justice and help
in good deeds». Our beloved prophet said with the
following remarkable guiding principle, «<Do wish
for others what you wish for yourself; do not wish

for others what you do not wish for yourself». These

137

Page 72:
i}
Va be)
vd

and like these other commandments, have keen or-
dered both by the holy Koran and God’s messenger.

No other faith, no other philosophical doctrine
and no other science could explain these natural
rights of humanbeings in such a clear, wide and
comprehensive way except Islam.

Living Rights

Everybody has got the right to live in this world.
Our religion considers aggression to this right of an
individual as the aggression to all humanbeings. The

holy Koran says, «Ye slay not the life which Allah —
hath made sacred save in the course of justice. This
He hath commanded you in order that ye may dis- ~

cern». Our religion considers murdering of a man,
as the biggest sin

To have an abortion is also a sin and forbidden — a

in our religion.

To commit suicide is also forbidden and prohi- a
bited in our religion. Self-defence against a danger —
is legal. There is no harm in killing the enemy during —

the self-defence.

To attack the sacred things which are a part of
spiritual existences, is prohibited and forbidden in
our religion just like attempting on one’s life. Our

138

religion has also strongly prohibited the committan-
ce of things like making fun and mockery of others,
looking down upon others; back biting; calminating,
envying, and spreading rumours which stain the
honour, dignity and respect of individuals and has
regarded them as the most wicked habits.

Right of Freedom : Everybody is free and enjoys
the right of freedom. The freedom cf anybody will
not be effected no matter whatsoever his language,
religion, race and origin.

Calipk Omar said scoldingly to the youngman
who beat up the copt, «How quickly you have made
slaves of those people who had been born free from
their mothers.»

Freedom of Thought: Every body is free to
think, and it is his own right.

Freedom of Knowledge: Islam is the greatest
friend and protector of knowledge. Because as much
as knowledge progresses, the eminent wisdom of
Islam will also manifest itself in the same proper-
tion.

Property Right: Man has the right of owning
property legally and lawfully. He can spend and
use his possessions and his money without squ-

139

Page 73:
Fa
andering and stinginess. To oppose this right of
man is considered a crime in our religion. The pro-
perty right is the only source of working continuous:
ly and honourably as an individual or as a society
and progressing and going higher and higher and
also helping all those other people in this connec-
tion.

The social and economic life is paralysed at q
places where this right is not recognised, and one ~

can not find peace and rest. Terrible cruelty and
catastrophe fall on the society of this type. For this
reason, Islam has allowed personal property and

prohibited and forbidden the aggression against it. q

140

A REAL CASE OF THE BELIEVER WHO ADOPTS
THE KORANIC ETHICS

A Muslim who believes in the holy Koran and
adopts his life according to its orders and prohibi-
tions, is an ideal and perfect man. All the human
qualities are found in a man of this type.

1 — He believes in the unity of God and in
all what He has sent through His prophet and prac-
tises what he believes.

2 — He prays; he fasts; he pays his legal alms
and goes to pilgrimage if he is in a position to per-
form as ordered by. God and shown by His holy
Prophet.

3 — He helps orphans, the needy, the way-fa-
rer and’ those who ask for it-and also his own rela-.
tives both with his property and his heart according
to his means. wt

‘141

Page 74:
>

Ye
as

4 — At the time of danger, he does not hesitate
and become weak. He uses all his means jn every
affair and leaves the result to God.

5 — He obeys his parents_and fulfills his pro-
mises. He does not deceive anybody and performs
all the duties he is charged with, with all his might.

6 — Muslim is the cleanest person in the world.
He keeps everything like his body, clothes, food,
vessels, place, street and road... etc., always neat
and clean.

7 — He keeps his heart and his soul free from - q

hypocrisy, intrigue, cheating, lying, back biting, spre-
ading rumours, drinking wine, gambling and talk-
ing nonsense.

8 — He does not feel haughtiness by just over-
estimating himself or does not flatter others by con-
sidering himself inferior. He is a dignified and per-
fect Muslim.

9 — He protects himself from badness, whether

small, big, secret or public. Thus his appearance fits .

his conscience and his consicience fits his appea-
rance. He supports goodness, refrains from badness
and does not join. bad people.

ca
10 — He does not run after valueless and wic-
ked aims. He works continuously and earns money

142

legally. He thanks God for what He gives him and
also prays God for what he has not got. He always
feels himself contented and patient with what he
gets.

_ 11 — He controls himself against anger and
feels pleasure in forgiving faults and guilts. He ad-
vocates goodness and discourages badness.

12 — He tries to do his work with ali possible
efforts and considers laziness as his biggest enemy.

13 — Good manners, knowledge, art, and scien-
ce are his beloved conpanions and he adorns himself
with them. He refrains from bad manners and ig-
norance.

14 — He does his best for the sake of God, his
nation and country. He sacrifices his lif when
necessary. :

15 — He considers all Muslims as his brothers,
shares with them in their problems; looks after sick
people; helps them in paying their debts; firds solu-
tions to their troubles; respects the elders and loves
the youngers.

16 — He feels compassion for animals which
are also created by God; protects the objects and

embraces the existing universe with love because he

143

Page 75:
likes those whom God Himself likes and dislikes
those whom God also dislikes.
17 — To behave in this way is God’s command

_and our prophet’s traditions. Every Muslim is the”

follower of this holy path. He passes his worldly
life in a clean and pious way, thus proving himself
as a useful member of society. He meets his God
with faith and peace of soul and he obtains His
eternal blessings.

18 — Let God make all of us follow this holy
and happy path!

AMEN

144

LEGAL ALMS (ZAKAT) PROPORTIONS

(A) For Sheep and Goats

Those who possess from 40 to 120 sheep or

goats, should give one shcep or goat. Those who

possess from 121 to 200 sheep or goats, should give
two sheep or goats. Those who possess from 201 to
399 sheep or goats, should give three sheep cr goats
Those who possess 400 sheep or goats should give
4 sheep or goats. After this, for every 100 sheep or
goats, one should give one sheep or one goat. That
means one sheep or one goat for every 100 sheep or
goats; so, those who possess 500 sheep or goats sho-
uld give 5 sheep or goats, those who possess 700
sheep or goats, should give 7 sheep or goats, and so
on.

(B) For Cattle

Those who possess from 30 to 39 cows, oxen or
buffalos, should give one male or female calf a year

_old. Those who possess from 40 to 59 cows, oxen or

145

Page 76:
Vv
buffalos, should give one male or female calf two
years old,

: Those who possess from 60 to 69 cows, oxen or
buffalos, should give two male or female calves one
year old,

Those who possess from 70 to 79 cows, oxen or
buffalos, should give two calves, one one year old
and the other two years old,

Those who possess from 80 to 89 cows, oxen or
buftalos, should give two female calves two years old
each,

Those who possess from 90 to 99 cows, oxen or
buffalos, should give three calves of one year old
each,

Those who possess from 100 to 119 cows, oxen
or buffalos, should give three female calves. such
that two calves of one year old each and the third
one of two years old,

Those who possess 120 cows, oxen or buffalos,
should give

a) 4 calves of one year old each or,

b) 3 calves two years old each,

In this connection the owner of the caitle has
got the benefit of choice.

146

After that for every extra 30 cows, oxen or buff-
alos, one male or female calf of one year cld, and
for every extra 40 cows, oxen or buffalos, one male
or female calf of two years old should be added.

(C) For Camels

__ Those who possess from 5 to 9 camels, should
give one sheep or goat,

Those who possess from 10 to 14 camels, should
give two sheep or goats,

Those who possess from 15 to 19 camels, should
give three sheep or goats,

Those who possess from 20 to 24 camels should
give four sheep or goats,

_ Those wo possess from 25 to 35 camels, should
give one female camel two years old,

Those who possess from 36 to 45 camels. should
give one female camel three years old,

Those who possess from 46 to 60 camels, should
give one female camel four years old,

Those who possess from 61 to 75 camels should
give one female camel fiv2 years old,

Those who possess from 76 to 90camels, should

‘give two female camels each three years old,

147

Page 77:
we

ee : :
- Those who possess from 91 to 120 camels, sho-
uld give two female camels of four years old each.

Those who possess from 121 to 144 camels, two
female camels of four years old each. In the same
time for every extra five camels, one sheep or goat
is given.

Those who possess from 145 to 149 camels,
should give three female camels each two of them
4 years old and the third one two years old.

Those who possess from 150 to 174 camels, sho-
uld give three female camels each of four years old.
(Separately one sheep or goat for every extra five

heads of camels).

Those who possess from 175 to 185 camels,
should give three female camels each four years old
and one female camel two years old.

Those wno possess from 186 to 195 camels,
should give three female camels four years each and
one female camel three years old.

Those who’ possess from 196 to 200 camels,
should give four female camels of four years old
each.

After this for every fifty heads of camels, one
female camel four years old is added.

148


Page 78:
Publications of the Directorate of Religious Affairs

nee rs ~ CONCISE ISLAMIC

Ragiat
aay Es Wp
«MK ka ee

» ae Re

am
Hi.

Semih Ofset Matbaaciltk Ankara
Compiled by
Mehmet SOYMEN
: Translated by
Price : 30 TL. Ihsan EKMELEDDIN

[ me |

